Resumption of the session
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 17 December 1999 , and I would like once again to wish you a happy new year in the hope that you enjoyed a pleasant festive period .
Although , as you will have seen , the dreaded ' millennium bug ' failed to materialise , still the people in a number of countries suffered a series of natural disasters that truly were dreadful .
You have requested a debate on this subject in the course of the next few days , during this part-session .
Please rise , then , for this minute ' s silence .
( The House rose and observed a minute ' s silence )
Madam President , on a point of order .
You will be aware from the press and television that there have been a number of bomb explosions and killings in Sri Lanka .
One of the people assassinated very recently in Sri Lanka was Mr Kumar Ponnambalam , who had visited the European Parliament just a few months ago .
Yes , Mr Evans , I feel an initiative of the type you have just suggested would be entirely appropriate .
If the House agrees , I shall do as Mr Evans has suggested .
Madam President , on a point of order .
I would like your advice about Rule 143 concerning inadmissibility .
My question relates to something that will come up on Thursday and which I will then raise again .
The Cunha report on multiannual guidance programmes comes before Parliament on Thursday and contains a proposal in paragraph 6 that a form of quota penalties should be introduced for countries which fail to meet their fleet reduction targets annually .
It says that this should be done despite the principle of relative stability .
I believe that the principle of relative stability is a fundamental legal principle of the common fisheries policy and a proposal to subvert it would be legally inadmissible .
That is precisely the time when you may , if you wish , raise this question , i.e. on Thursday prior to the start of the presentation of the report .
At the request of a French Member , Mr Zimeray , a petition has already been presented , which many people signed , including myself .
This is all in accordance with the principles that we have always upheld .
Thank you , Mr Segni , I shall do so gladly .
Indeed , it is quite in keeping with the positions this House has always adopted .
Madam President , I should like to draw your attention to a case in which this Parliament has consistently shown an interest .
It is the case of Alexander Nikitin .
All of us here are pleased that the courts have acquitted him and made it clear that in Russia , too , access to environmental information is a constitutional right .
Now , however , he is to go before the courts once more because the public prosecutor is appealing .
Yes , Mrs Schroedter , I shall be pleased to look into the facts of this case when I have received your letter .
But , Madam President , my personal request has not been met .
I would therefore once more ask you to ensure that we get a Dutch channel as well .
Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel , I can tell you that this matter is on the agenda for the Quaestors ' meeting on Wednesday .
It will , I hope , be examined in a positive light .
Madam President , can you tell me why this Parliament does not adhere to the health and safety legislation that it actually passes ?
Why has no air quality test been done on this particular building since we were elected ?
Why has there been no Health and Safety Committee meeting since 1998 ?
Why has there been no fire drill , either in the Brussels Parliament buildings or the Strasbourg Parliament buildings ?
Why are there no fire instructions ?
Why have the staircases not been improved since my accident ?
Why are no-smoking areas not enforced ?
It seems absolutely disgraceful that we pass legislation and do not adhere to it ourselves .
Mrs Lynne , you are quite right and I shall check whether this has actually not been done .
I shall also refer the matter to the College of Quaestors , and I am certain that they will be keen to ensure that we comply with the regulations we ourselves vote on .
Madam President , Mrs Dez Gonzlez and I had tabled questions on certain opinions of the Vice-President , Mrs de Palacio , which appeared in a Spanish newspaper .
The competent services have not included them in the agenda on the grounds that they had been answered in a previous part-session .
I would ask that they reconsider , since this is not the case .
The questions answered previously referred to Mrs de Palacio ' s intervention , on another occasion , and not to these comments which appeared in the ABC newspaper on 18 November .
Mr Berenguer Fuster , we shall check all this .
I admit that , at present , the matter seems to be somewhat confused .
We shall therefore look into it properly to ensure that everything is as it should be .
Today 's decision not to renew the embargo is extremely dangerous considering the situation there .
So Parliament should send a message , since that is the wish of the vast majority .
It is irresponsible of EU Member States to refuse to renew the embargo .
As people have said , the situation there is extremely volatile .
There is , in fact , a risk of a military coup in the future .
We do not know what is happening .
So why should EU arms producers profit at the expense of innocent people ?
In any event , this question is not presently included among the requests for topical and urgent debate on Thursday .
Agenda
The next item is the verification of the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 13 January pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure .
No amendments have been proposed relating to Monday and Tuesday .
Relating to Wednesday :
The Group of the Party of European Socialists requests that a Commission statement be included on its strategic objectives for the next five years and on the administrative reform of the Commission .
I would like Mr Barn Crespo , who made the request , to speak to propose it . That is , if he so wishes , of course .
Then we shall follow the usual procedure , hearing one speaker in favour and one against .
This commitment is important because the Commission is a body with a monopoly of initiative in accordance with the Treaties and , therefore , basically dictates this Parliament ' s political and legislative activity for the next five years .
There has therefore been enough time for the Commission to prepare its programme and for us to become familiar with it and explain it to our citizens .
To this end , I would like to remind you of the resolution of 15 September , which recommended that the proposal be presented as soon as possible .
According to its President , it is in a position to do so .
Therefore , Madam President , I would ask you to request that the Commission express its opinion on this issue and that we then proceed to the vote .
( Applause from the PSE Group )
Madam President , I really am quite astonished at Mr Barn Crespo ' s behaviour and the fact that he is now asking for this item to be put on Wednesday 's agenda .
Mr Barn Crespo , you were unable to attend the Conference of Presidents last Thursday .
I am not criticising this ; it happens from time to time that people send someone to represent them .
Mr Hnsch represented you on this occasion .
In the Conference of Presidents , we had an in-depth discussion .
Your Group was alone in advocating what you are saying now .
We then put it to a vote .
As you know , each chairman has the same number of votes as his Group has Members .
There was a vote on this matter .
As I recall , the outcome of this vote was 422 votes to 180 with a few abstentions .
All of the others were of a different opinion .
That was the decision .
I should now like to comment on the issue itself .
We have confidence in the Commission and in Romano Prodi and , after a difficult procedure , as everyone knows , the vast majority of our Group supported the vote of confidence in Romano Prodi and the Commission .
There is no such document !
The Commission will present its programme for the year 2000 in February .
We have said , very well , if the Commission does not wish to introduce the 2000 programme as early as January then we will do it in February .
We have agreed to this .
After all , we do not wish to quarrel with the Commission ; if at all possible , we believe that the Commission and Parliament need to tread the same path .
However , we in Parliament also have a supervisory role with regard to the Commission and we do not have to agree with everything which comes out of the Commission .
I should like us to be able to do a reasonable amount of preparation for the debate on the five-year programme in our Groups .
You cannot prepare if you hear a statement in this House and have no idea of its content .
The fact that the subjects are connected also suggests that we should hold the debate on both programmes together .
That is why my Group firmly rejects the proposal made by the Socialist Group .
( Applause from the PPE-DE Group )
I propose that we vote on the request of the Group of the Party of European Socialists that the Commission statement on its strategic objectives should be reinstated .
( Parliament rejected the request ) President .
Still on the subject of Wednesday ' s sitting , I have another proposal regarding the oral question on capital tax .
The PPE-DE Group is requesting that this item be taken off the agenda .
Is there a member who wishes to speak on behalf of this Group to propose this ?
I do not know whether this information is correct , but the PPE-DE Group would , in any case , be grateful if this item were removed because Parliament has addressed this issue several times already .
Decisions have also been adopted against a tax of this kind .
That is why my Group moves that this item be taken off the agenda .
Thank you , Mr Poettering .
We shall now hear Mr Wurtz speaking against this request .
Madam President , I would firstly like to point out Mr Poettering ' s lack of logic .
We discussed that matter and we were unanimous , with the exception of the PPE and ELDR Groups .
It is not a lot to ask .
We shall proceed to vote on the PPE-DE Group ' s request that the oral question regarding the capital tax be withdrawn from the agenda .
( Parliament rejected the request , with 164 votes for , 166 votes against and 7 abstentions )
Madam President , I would like to thank Mr Poettering for advertising this debate .
Thank you very much .
Madam President , has my vote been counted ?
I was unable to vote electronically , since I do not have a card .
My vote was " in favour " .
Indeed , if we add the two Members who have declared themselves , then the result of the vote would be ....
Madam President , the Presidency has already declared the result of the vote .
There is no room for amendments .
That did not happen .
I would appreciate it if , on the close of this item of business , I might be allowed to give an explanation of vote on behalf of my Group .
This is an important matter .
It would be useful for the record of the House to state how people perceive what we have just done in the light of their own political analysis .
Madam President , I do not wish to reopen the debate , but I had also asked for the floor , to comment on Mr Barn Crespo 's motion .
You did not call me either .
I regret this , but the vote has already been taken and the decision is made so let us leave the matter there .
I am terribly sorry , Mr Hnsch and Mr Cox .
I did not see you asking to speak .
Even so , I think the positions are quite clear and they shall be entered in the Minutes .
When we adopt the Minutes for today ' s sitting tomorrow , then any Members who think the positions have not been explained clearly enough may ask for amendments .
This seems to me to be a workable solution .
Of course , the Minutes for tomorrow ' s sitting will take into account any additional explanations .
I think this is a better solution than proceeding now to extremely time-consuming explanations of votes .
Mr Cox , Mr Hnsch , would this be acceptable to you ?
Madam President , if the vote records correctly how my Group voted I shall not , and cannot , object to that .
If your ruling is that I cannot give an explanation of vote , I accept that but with reservations .
We shall pay particular attention to the wording of the Minutes , as we always do , of course .
If they do not properly reflect the positions adopted , then we may correct them , if necessary .
( The order of business was adopted thus amended )
Safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods
All of this is in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and is therefore to be greatly welcomed .
Our amendments from the first reading have , I believe , been taken into account very satisfactorily .
The one unanimously adopted amendment of the Committee on Regional Policy and Transport , which concerns the timetable for implementing the directive , is something which I would urge you to support .
I would urge you to endorse this .
The renovation project , which lasted for months , cut off this important route between the north and south of Europe .
The traffic which had to be diverted because of this stretched the patience of many thousands of people in the EU to the limit .
In fact , all hell broke loose in some municipalities in my province .
Prevention has to be our answer to disasters of this kind and this draft directive is an important step towards well-trained safety advisers being available , so that the right action is taken in good time .
All the same , we must not content ourselves with enacting European law to ensure greater safety .
We also need to follow this up and make sure that our rules are transposed by the Member States in good time and - even more importantly - we need to ensure that they are also applied afterwards .
Please let this not be yet another sector where we subsequently have to lament the lack of enforcement .
Madam President , first of all I should like to thank Mr Koch for his report which has , at its heart , the issue of transport safety .
The report looks at the issue of harmonising the examination requirements for safety advisors working in the areas of transportation of dangerous goods by road , rail and inland waterway .
I congratulate him on his excellent report .
My Group will therefore support the common position and looks forward to the enactment of the legislation which will provide us with yet another tool in our fight to make transport in the European Union as safe as possible .
When it comes to safety my Group will always support any initiatives to improve transport safety .
We still have a lot of work to do in this area as recent events have proved .
Madam President , I would like to make a few comments .
I would like , first of all , to thank the rapporteur for his exceptionally accurate and technical work on the report and , secondly , the Commission for the proposal it has submitted .
We are concerned here with the harmonisation of examination requirements but also , in fact , with minimum requirements .
This is a pity , in a sense .
This is important , but so is enforcement and there are , of course , a number of reasons why we need to pay particular attention to this .
Or ships from Eastern Europe which moor adjacent to ships over here , with all the obvious risks that this entails .
Furthermore , it has transpired that research in the ports in Belgium , Finland , but also in Japan has shown that 50 % of containers with partially dangerous cargo are not delivered correctly for shipment .
In short , the issue is an important one .
If we look at the situation where safety advisers are concerned , in a number of countries it is compulsory to employ such safety advisers in companies as from 1 January of this year .
There will be major problems with enforcing this rule at present , especially with smaller companies , as these cannot afford safety advisors .
These smaller companies either dispose of their cargo or mix it with other cargo , which causes problems .
It is therefore also being requested that ISO 9002 certificates possibly include the finer details of these activities in the form of annual reports and company analyses .
The work is done . All that remains is the business of enforcement .
I would like to mention one final point .
This gives them a competitive edge for the interim period .
Madam President , the importance of transport safety is highlighted on a regular basis in this Parliament and rightly so .
The ever increasing volume of goods passing through Europe entails all kinds of risks , known and unknown , for employees and the social environment .
Those having to deal with these risks should therefore meet stringent requirements .
The relevant standards which have been laid down in another Directive , 95 / 35 / EC , seem sufficiently adequate to advise people in a responsible manner on the organisation of the transport of dangerous goods .
This , however , does not seem feasible .
Finally , the amendment tabled by the rapporteur is perfectly logical and I can , therefore , give it my wholehearted support .
Mr President , Commissioner , I should first like to congratulate Mr Koch on his reports which , though technical , are nonetheless of very great significance for safety .
I should like to make just a few comments .
Considering that it is only today that we are dealing with a Commission proposal first made on 19 March 1998 , even though Parliament responded relatively quickly , this time lag is a little too long .
This is not just the fault of the Commission , but I believe that we need to take action more quickly so as to achieve harmonisation in this area as well .
My second point has already been mentioned : it concerns the minimum standards .
In principle , I believe that in many cases where transport is concerned we should be working towards increased flexibility and country-specific rules .
However , when it comes to safety , I am rather sceptical because safety in Sweden , for example , is in principle no different from safety in Germany , Italy or Austria .
I can live with these minimum standards , but I would ask the Commission to monitor the situation very carefully .
Should flexibility of this kind result in there being inadequate rules in some countries then we should work towards greater harmonisation .
My third point has also been mentioned already .
As you know , like Mr Rack , I come from a transit country , where this issue plays a particularly important role .
We do not want to make the conditions of competition worse for some countries unilaterally and improve them for countries such as Austria or other transit countries .
But I believe that we should do all we can to keep the transport of dangerous goods to a minimum , in all countries , whether they are transit countries or not .
Very briefly , I would like to thank the various Members for their interventions and to tell you that safety is one of the Commission ' s priorities in the field of transport .
As Mr Simpson has said very correctly , this is a process which we can never take for granted or regard as having come to an end .
The process of increasing safety margins and safety guarantees in transport is a process which must be improved day by day .
In one of the worst accidents to have occurred recently , the goods being transported were not dangerous in themselves .
Margarine and a few kilos of paint which , in principle , do not present risks , led to a genuine disaster .
Therefore , we will have to see how the requirements guaranteeing the maximum degree of safety can be further improved .
Finally , I would like to say that we have to consider safety in all types of transport .
But I would like to say that safety is a priority objective for the Commission .
I would like to repeat my appreciation to all the speakers and especially to the rapporteur , Mr Koch .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Transport of dangerous goods by road
Delays in the CEN ' s work are now making it difficult to apply this very directive .
In particular , annexes cannot be adapted to take account of technical and industrial developments .
I regret this since we are having to take action because others have not done their job .
In this respect , I accept this proposal to amend Directive 94 / 55 / EC which has been tabled for discussion today .
The amendment to the directive on today 's agenda does not therefore affect the existing harmonisation of the transport of dangerous goods in the Community .
The amendment to the directive is consequently in full accordance with the principle of subsidiarity ; the Member States obtain more powers .
The Commission decides whether the Member States may impose certain rules of their own .
In so doing , it is supported by a committee of experts on the transport of dangerous goods under the regulatory procedure .
The procedures for the exercise of these implementing powers conferred on the Commission were laid down afresh in the Council Decision of June 1999 .
The proposal to be discussed today , to amend the directive on the transport of dangerous goods by road , dates from May 1999 , however , and could not therefore take account of the latest comitology procedure .
Two of the amendments tabled and adopted unanimously by the committee relate precisely to this amended comitology procedure .
In addition , the need for greater transparency has been pointed out .
A further amendment allows the Member States to impose more stringent requirements , in particular for vacuum tanks , if work is done or goods are transported as a priority in temperatures well below -20C .
This is in the special interest of northern European regions .
I do realise that this is only a small step towards increased transport safety , but I would ask you to endorse this report .
Mr President , colleagues , a happy new year and millennium to you all .
I would like to briefly comment on the Commission ' s proposal to amend the directive on the transport of dangerous goods by road .
The Commission ' s proposal , however , does not take account of all the facts , such as the cold climate that prevails in the northern regions .
Consequently , I have tabled some amendments to Mr Koch ' s intrinsically excellent report , which have been adopted by our committee .
My amendments concern the frost-resistance ratings for tankers carrying these dangerous goods .
According to the Commission ' s proposal -20C would have been sufficient .
On the shores of the Mediterranean , it is hard to imagine that in Lapland temperatures can fall considerably lower than that .
There is support for the EU in Lapland also , so let us remember them .
I have thus proposed that the frost rating be lowered to -40C .
This would be necessary to keep safety standards at the level they were in northern regions previously .
I hope my proposal will be taken into consideration in tomorrow ' s vote .
Mr President , with your permission I should like to begin by expressing my admiration for the way in which you executed the quick changeover of the chairmanship just now during the debate .
I thought that it was quite superb .
This directive is a contribution to this .
What we are doing today is essentially a nuisance .
Mr President , the report we are discussing here does not , in itself , entail any major changes . Most of the proposed amendments are of a purely technical nature .
Very large quantities of dangerous goods are transported around the EU , both on roads and railways and by sea .
This makes it necessary to have proper rules governing transport of this kind . In area after area , we are now obtaining common minimum regulations for the Member States .
This is extraordinarily positive , and there is cause to thank the rapporteur , Mr Koch , for the work he has put in on this issue .
This is also important where the prerequisites for the internal market are concerned .
I should like to conclude by commenting on a third matter which is also of significance , namely an amendment tabled by Member of Parliament , Mr Ari Vatanen .
In many ways , the prerequisites differ from one Member State to another .
By approving this amendment , we take account of the fact that it can be very cold in the northern parts of the European Union .
This makes it necessary to also take account of the ways in which materials and packaging are affected by cold of this kind .
It is good that , in establishing the present regulations , we can also be flexible . I hope that the Commission is able to accept the present amendment .
The reason Mr Koch produced his sound report was because the work in the CEN and within the United Nations Economic Commission was proceeding none too expeditiously .
For one thing is clear : even if we come to an excellent arrangement within the European Union , traffic does not stop at our borders , it goes beyond them .
Hence there is certainly every reason to introduce more far-reaching regional provisions .
If the Commissioner is unable to do so today then would she be prepared to inform the committee in writing of how matters stand and what stage negotiations between the CEN and the Economic Commission are at ?
Mr President , I would once again like to congratulate Mr Koch on his magnificent work on this other report , which in a way supplements the debate which we held in October on rail transport .
We all regret that the European Committee for Standardisation ( CEN ) has not been able , in the required time , to carry out the amendment of the provisions necessary for the required harmonisation within the European Union .
This debate and the amendment of the directive currently in force allow us to incorporate differentiating elements which demonstrate the diversity of this Europe of ours .
A moment ago , Mr Vatanen spoke to us of lower temperatures , not of 20 degrees below zero , but of 40 degrees below zero .
The Commission accepts all of the contributions of the parliamentary committee and the rapporteur , Mr Koch , which are contained in the various amendments , specifically four .
We therefore accept the four amendments which have been proposed .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Structural Funds - Cohesion Fund coordination
A major part of Wales , as you know , has been granted Objective 1 status under the Structural Funds programme .
It is quite clear that many people within Wales are looking to the European Structural Funds programme to alleviate some of the great difficulties that we undoubtedly face .
We have seen poverty growing in Wales ; and growing still further since 1997 .
We have seen the gap between rich and poor widen .
We are looking , therefore , within the Structural Funds programme not just to see industrial restructuring but also to see a wider improvement in the whole of the economic base within the Principality .
What is , however , deeply damaging for us is the belief that in some way the granting of Structural Funds assistance is something that has been , in a sense , a success of the government .
It is sadly only a recognition of the very great difficulties that Wales faces .
That is why I want to highlight some of the issues that I believe the Commission must have at the forefront .
We look to the Commission to deal with points in relation to additionality .
We are dissatisfied with the fact that those figures seem to have been in some way hidden within UK figures .
We look to the Commission also to ensure that there is matched funding for projects .
Finally , we ask that the Commission ensures that Structural Fund monies are spent in a way which is transparent .
Too much of what takes place within this Parliament is not transparent .
This is one area in which I believe the Commission can be a very great friend to Wales .
Mr President , our committee views these issues very differently and , to start , I will speak from the point of view of research .
This will be possible with action on the part of governments , and such decentralisation of higher education will be an unquestionably useful policy in evening out development .
Poverty and wealth used to depend more on means of livelihood .
I would like to draw people 's attention to Amendments Nos 1 and 2 which were agreed by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs but not accepted by the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism .
These amendments deal with the social economy and the need to provide social risk capital and support financially local schemes to develop employment opportunities and strengthen social cohesion .
In the past , this Parliament has viewed the social economy as an important potential provider of employment .
These amendments also fit in with this Parliament 's view that social exclusion is a serious issue needing constructive action .
We hope that those considering rejection of these amendments have very powerful reasons to offer to both Parliament and their citizens who are seeking employment .
In her report , Mrs Flautre also drew attention to an area where coordination is sorely lacking , yet desperately needed .
The Commission proposals refer to the four pillars of employment strategy and the five fields of action of the European Social Fund .
But the lack of specific guidelines here is particularly to be regretted , as the idea of linking Social Fund assistance to the employment strategy will be put into effect for the first time during the 2000-2006 programme .
We hope that the Commission can reassure us that this was an oversight which is now being dealt with constructively .
Mr President , Commissioner , the proposal presented by the Commission , in accordance with its mandate , is a reasonable starting point for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development .
This , as well as the deficiencies in the networks of infrastructures and services and a generally very low level of employment , which furthermore is seasonal and lacks diversity , exacerbates the exodus from rural areas .
The consequences do not inspire hope .
It is the young people who are disappearing , who are getting an education and finding work outside of the rural areas , all of which has an unfavourable effect on those areas .
This lack of infrastructure is also an obstacle to the establishment of companies and the creation of jobs .
We have to remember that rural areas represent almost four fifths of the territory of the European Union .
Agriculture only provides 5.5 % of employment in the Union .
Furthermore , three quarters of our farm workers are part-time and require supplements to their incomes .
Mr President , Commissioner , I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Schroedter , the rapporteur , for her work .
I think that this work has been carried out extremely well .
Small and medium-sized businesses , above all , need to take part in the distribution of these funds .
Mr President , it is incumbent upon me to remind my colleague , Mr Evans , of why Wales actually achieved Objective 1 status .
It was because of the discredited policies of his own Conservative Party .
I can tell you that the British Government is aware of its regulatory requirements on Objective 1 additionality .
I suggest Mr Evans goes back and reads the regulation .
My Group has made extensive amendments to both reports up for debate today .
I want to focus our minds on the essential role of the guidelines .
It is important to identify the skills and potential of our regions in the hi-tech sector .
It is particularly important in the light of reports in the media that Europe is rapidly losing ground to the US in the hi-tech growth industries of the future .
The operation of the previous round of programmes is also very instructive in telling us what guidelines should not be about .
They should not be about creating additional layers of bureaucracy and red tape .
The implementation and operation of the guidelines cannot be left to the personal interpretation of one or other desk officer , either in the Commission or in the civil service .
There must be an internal coherence in the Commission directorate , while respecting the specific local and regional aspects of Commission programmes .
Mr President , Commissioner , I would like to thank Mrs Schroedter for an excellent report .
She has gone into the issue in some depth and in the committee debate she took account of many of the amendments that have been tabled regarding this report .
The rapporteur has also quite rightly stated that Parliament was not heard in time regarding the guidelines .
We are badly behind now in this matter .
Hopefully , the stands Parliament has taken will help , however , in the mid-term appraisal of the programmes and in their practical implementation .
For the time , the report grew too large when it was being debated . It contained details and issues that had already been raised in previous reports .
At this stage it is more important to concentrate on assessing how we can use this process to steer Union regional policy , bearing in mind that the aim is to reduce regional inequality .
Our Group also considers it important to take greater account of remote and peripheral areas and wishes to increase interaction between towns and rural areas .
We oppose the excessive control the central administration of the Union and its Member States exercises and we are calling for a reduction in the bureaucracy that has taken root in the drafting and implementation of programmes .
Projects implemented with support from the Union have had their effect watered down all too often by slow decision making and complicated administrative processes .
Funds have often been granted for projects which have had no lasting benefit for the area concerned . Projects have to be carried out more efficiently , more flexibly and they have to be made more productive .
While the report was being prepared , it was interesting to discuss the Union ' s regional policy in general .
For us new members , it was the first time , and this was a very interesting process .
This report is very good and our Group supports it .
Mr President , we should not forget that the main , strategic objective of the Structural and Cohesion Funds and of their coordination is to achieve economic and social cohesion .
We are obliged to participate in drafting directives and also in assessing their results .
We are obliged to do so because we are the representatives of the citizens in a Europe of Citizens and not just in a Europe of States and of Regions .
We feel that the Funds are a necessary but insufficient condition for achieving economic and social cohesion .
We might be mistaken in using the gross domestic product per inhabitant as the sole indicator .
Some speakers have already mentioned unemployment and the fall in population .
We will have to study several indicators , which will enable us to see the current state of regional societies that are in a worse situation than others , and how they are evolving .
This fact means that the European Parliament , the Commissioner and the Commission must act decisively and strategically .
I agree that the European Parliament did not have the opportunity - or that it was not given the opportunity , as we had reached the end of the parliamentary term - to discuss the directives .
I do not think , however , that this report has come too late .
Our citizens cannot accept that the European Union takes decisions in a way that is , at least on the face of it , bureaucratic .
They need to see the political dimension working , to see that officials accept their responsibilities and that there is communication with the citizens .
This is what we are today asking the Commissioner for .
I would like to think that , given his previous experience as a regional President , he will agree to propose indicators , and a strategy , which will favour economic and social cohesion and not just productivity .
This means that there must be a comprehensive partnership between local authorities and national governments with regard to how these funds are to be spent .
Member States are urged to attach greater importance to integrated strategies for revitalising relations between towns and rural areas . This latter point is of particular importance .
While urban renewal in our cities is very important we must always strike a balance in our policies between promoting rural development and improving the lives of city dwellers .
We do not want to build a Europe of cities alone .
The Structural Funds have played a key role in the development both of urban and rural parts of peripheral countries , mainly through the upgrading of roads , water treatment and related transport networks .
This process will continue in accordance with the financial spending guidelines laid down by the EU leaders at their Berlin Summit last year , which were supported by Parliament at its last May plenary part-session .
Key EU programmes between 1989 , 1993 , 1994 and 1999 have certainly helped to improve the economic competitiveness of peripheral countries and Objective 1 regions within Europe .
The key now is to consolidate and make permanent the progress made to date .
Mr President , on numerous occasions in the past I have disagreed with the rapporteur on her approach to regional policy issues . This time , however , I actually agree with her .
Whether or not this will encourage her to continue along the same path , I cannot say . Nevertheless , I would like to commend her on her work .
Unfortunately , this did not happen . Mr Berni is not to blame for this as it was a matter for the previous committee .
I am raising the issue just to reiterate Parliament ' s position .
Thirdly , we broadly agree on the general guidelines provided they do not deviate from the comments we have made so far .
Personally , I at least am totally in favour of the guidelines .
As an islander , however , I would like to express my dissatisfaction at the lack of recognition of island development .
Commissioner , we shall continue to raise the issue , as Article 158 , paragraph 1 , of the Treaty of Amsterdam provides for an integrated policy for islands .
Therefore , the Commission should address the issue once and for all .
The time has come to implement the programmes , and so Member States should also assume their responsibilities and do their jobs properly .
As for us in Parliament , I would like to remind you of the code of conduct between the Commission and Parliament which was signed in May .
I am absolutely certain that this code will be observed and that Parliament will keep abreast of all the developments and details concerning the implementation of the programmes .
Mr President , Commissioner , in this minute and a half I should like , first of all , to congratulate Mrs Schroedter .
Consequently , I feel we must look to the future and establish guidelines for the mid-term review in 2003 , and thus have an influence on the second phase of programming set to follow 2003 .
The first is the harmonisation of national development policies and regional development policies .
Subsidies are not enough to ensure development when infrastructure and public services are lacking .
We must ask ourselves a fundamental question : how can we ensure that Union policy interfaces with the subsidiary national policies for regional development ?
The second challenge is that of enlargement which will , of course , have a considerable impact , both in budgetary and geographical terms .
These are two areas of action which I invite the Commissioner to set up and in which I would ask him to involve us .
Finally , in this time of natural disasters , I would just like to mention the issue of the use of Structural Funds .
As you know , it is up to each State to redistribute part of the total appropriation .
Europe should not be completely absent , as the states tend to want .
Public opinion and the press nowadays accuse us of being unavailable to give a response , even though we are going to be funding a large proportion of the national operations .
I think we should be capable of saying this loud and clear .
I also think we should ensure , or ask Member States to ensure , that there is some publicity given to European aid whenever it is used to repair damage caused by natural disasters or accidents .
Mr President , the priority given to financial and monetary criteria reinforces the increase in inequalities of every shape and form .
As far as French planning experts are concerned , for example , the most probable scenario today is that of the entrenchment of regional disparities within each country .
Well , the Structural Funds have helped to apply a brake to this process .
Our project of a Europe that aims to satisfy social needs envisages the convergence of living conditions towards the highest common denominator .
Its implementation would certainly require extending the scope of redistribution instruments such as the Structural Funds .
What we are proposing specifically is a unified capital tax , which would make it possible to boost the funds used to support the harmonisation of social protection systems and the reduction of working hours at European level .
The Commission , however , though bound to issue guidelines , does so only reluctantly and in a vague manner .
The report put forward today re-establishes its place in the political sphere .
It is one of the steps towards a policy of employment and sustainable development .
This is what persuades us to vote in favour of it .
Mr President , I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work .
Over the coming years , faced with the challenges of globalisation and eastward enlargement , Europe will , more than ever before , require appropriate detailed guidance on how to plan and revitalise its economy .
To this end , Europe as a whole , and each Member State individually , will have to make optimum use of all available resources and capacities , including the Structural Funds .
For this to be possible , what we need from the European Commission are not just good intentions , but clearer guidelines and a firm commitment to monitoring the way these resources are used by the Member States .
The report itself is well-intentioned but , as so often when we deal with these issues , lacks clarity of purpose and a sound basis for operability .
I would like to explain our thinking here .
Firstly , we are concerned with the proper use of the Structural and Cohesion Funds .
Next , we all too often see vast sums of money being spent on projects whose outcomes will necessarily be unclear at the start of the programme period .
But at the mid-way point or end of that period there is no effective way of terminating the project if it has not proved successful .
Finally , we call for a change to the balance and method by which the funds are disbursed .
There should be greater involvement of the private sector which will introduce financial reality as a perspective within the funding equation .
I urge the House to support these changes .
Mr President , Commissioner , I too would like to commend the rapporteur on her report , which is a meticulous and substantive piece of work .
The European Union ' s structural and cohesion policies are , without doubt , essential tools for creating the right conditions with a view to tackling and reducing the levels of economic and social disparity between the regions .
Despite the steps taken thus far , these levels are still very high , and are unacceptably high as regards unemployment .
These policy objectives can only be achieved through their careful coordination and organisation on the basis of well thought-out and sensible guidelines .
Let us not forget that when these policies are effective , they also benefit European citizens by directly improving their quality of life .
Mr President , Mrs Schroedter ' s report undoubtedly contains several important observations , and I would like to congratulate her on that .
However , I feel that we should be a little more concerned about the actual direction and outcome of the Community ' s regional policy .
Quite briefly , structural policy does not ease the problem of mass unemployment in any way , rather it aggravates it .
The agricultural economy and agricultural regions have been irreparably damaged by the existing regional policy , which has had dramatic consequences on employment levels in rural areas and on the living conditions of farmers , particularly in the South .
Regional disparities are becoming much more marked within the Member States .
If we examine the data presented in the sixth periodic report , we will see that the last decade has witnessed a proliferation of regional disparities .
The Union ' s economic and social policy is just as much to blame for that as its regional policy .
A large section of the Union ' s population has strongly condemned this policy for being dangerous and anti grass-roots .
Unfortunately , the new guidelines seem to be heading in the same direction and there are no signs that things will change once they have been implemented .
The first is the fundamental , central importance that we continue to give to the principle of economic and social cohesion .
We are concerned to hear news that the Commission is taking this objective less seriously .
We still feel that economic and social cohesion is one of the Union ' s fundamental objectives .
Secondly , I agree with what has already been said on the issue of the islands and I would also like to bring the outermost regions to your attention .
In future , we would like to see greater ambition applied to the subject of the outermost regions such as , in my country , the islands of the Azores and Madeira .
Mr President , first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur , not least for being willing to include in the report the suggestions we made .
Mr President , Commissioner , the guidelines are intended to help steer the Member States towards achieving the reform objectives contained in the programmes .
However , contrary to their claim to provide guidance , the Commission ' s proposals in this respect are reminiscent to a far greater extent of a catalogue of possible measures within the scope of the various policy areas .
Nonetheless , their true purpose is to give direction and to set priorities .
I am particularly in favour of a proposed amendment tabled by my Group to paragraph 10 , to ensure an appropriate level of private sector involvement in the planning and implementation of the projects .
I should be very grateful , Mrs Schroedter , if you would actually include this proposed amendment in the part relating to subsidiarity in your positive deliberations .
They are growing , but only in terms of GDP .
They are increasing in competitiveness but they are not all experiencing an increase in wealth because there is no increase in employment and there are still differences in employment opportunities between regions .
Commissioner , please read the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and treat it as a matter of priority , because this is our citizens ' greatest problem .
Please take account , in strategic terms , in the revision and in the allocation of reserves , of employment needs , because this , fundamentally is what the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Funds require .
Cohesion policy needs to be strengthened further because a Europe which totally disregards the standard of living in its regions can neither be reliable or viable .
This means putting forward the Commission ' s priorities , based on past experience in implementing the programmes , as well as current Community policies relating to structural operations .
This is the purpose of these guidelines .
Concerning the most remote regions , it was only quite belatedly that we received the memorandums from the various governments , but this is not necessarily an excuse , just an explanation .
We must therefore take these memorandums into consideration and produce an extremely thorough piece of work .
So that is the first priority , the competitiveness of regional economies .
You expressed some concern about what might look like a lack of reference to this partnership , yet there is a clear reference to it on page 5 of the guidelines .
I should now like to respond briefly to a few of the comments you have made , ladies and gentlemen , and firstly on procedure .
It is true that consultation with Parliament has only come about at a late date .
Due to the elections to the European Parliament taking place around this time , however , Parliament was not able to undertake its examination of these guidelines until after the text had been definitively adopted , in July 1999 .
Now to the form .
On the subject of the role of the guidelines , Mrs Schroedter , you pointed out that this is the context in which guidelines on a number of European objectives , often very precise ones , should be provided .
Drawing to a close , I should like to focus on a number of challenges which you reiterated , Mrs Schroedter .
I am thinking , for example , of the idea that these guidelines are not specific enough in their recommendations .
This claim that your report makes must be seen in the context of last spring ' s negotiations .
I actually quoted the text itself , in quotation marks .
Moreover , the guidelines may not substitute for the programming or the ex ante assessments which must be the tool used to specify priorities and the effectiveness of these programmes .
You then mentioned , Mrs Schroedter , the section of the guidelines relating to urban and rural development , pointing out that urban development was not sufficiently taken into consideration .
I find the opposite the case .
I wish to confirm the great importance the Commission attaches , and shall attach , to the urban dimension of our cohesion policy .
Indeed , I had occasion recently to say as much to all the ministers responsible for urban policy at a meeting in Tampere .
It must , however , be stressed that the guidelines under discussion are related only to the Structural Funds , whose Objectives 1 and 2 specifically adopt the diversification of rural society as a priority .
In any event , I appreciate the vigilance of your Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in this matter .
I shall remind you that the Commission is going to be approving the Objective 2 zoning plans for France , Sweden , Austria and Luxembourg tomorrow .
We shall then have an appropriate tool for working , particularly in the majority of the regions affected by the storms .
Indeed , this is my reason for paying a personal visit the day after tomorrow to two of the French departments which have been severely disabled by the storms .
This can only reinforce the concept based on a number of elements of good practice drawn from our experience of the current 1994-1999 programmes .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Social and economic situation and development of the regions of the Union
The European Commission ' s sixth report presents very valuable conclusions .
I shall summarise two of those highlighted by the rapporteur , one positive and one negative .
The negative conclusion is that the great effort made has been more efficient in harmonising the European regions ' GDP and productivity than in harmonising its levels of unemployment .
It is therefore necessary to link structural financing more closely to job creation .
This , Commissioner , is the first commandment for the coming period .
Mr President , Commissioner , I would first like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for having taken due account of the proposed amendments while the committee was debating it .
The sixth periodical report gives a basis for assessing the implementation of the Union ' s regional policy aims . The report shows that growth has been uneven , despite all our efforts .
We now require an in-depth analysis of why regional policy is not producing the desired result in all areas .
Is the reason bureaucracy or is it because insufficient notice has been taken of interregional differences , long distances , climates that are too cold or too hot , sparse populations and austere conditions ?
How can the Union respond to the challenges of global development in a way that the less developed areas can remain a part of that development ?
It is also important to discover what the effects of Union enlargement will be on Structural Funds and the development of the Union ' s more remote areas .
The Member States must also bear in mind their responsibility .
Some Member States have been in breach of the principle of subsidiarity and cut national regional funds when regional aid coming via the Union has been increased .
This has chipped away at the results that regional policy has produced .
In the future , we must also develop indicators so that measures can be targeted at the right time at the right place .
For example , uncontrolled migration has not been given sufficient consideration .
In this connection , too , weight has to be given to the decisive importance of SMEs as employers and forces behind regional development .
It is absolutely essential that companies in areas developing more slowly adopt the latest technology and know-how .
Our Group is in favour of adopting this report .
Mr President , Commissioner , the European Union ' s regional policy has , until now , not been able to interpret , in any significant way , the existing differences in our inhabitants ' incomes .
Mr President , Commissioner , Mr Berend ' s report is precisely in line with the strategy determined by the European Commission inasmuch as the question of increasing competitiveness is brought right to the fore .
The overarching objectives of the structural funds such as job creation , boosting equality of opportunity , increasing the sustainability of employment and development , are only mentioned in passing .
This attitude appears to me to be unjustified . I would also ask that a great deal more emphasis be placed on these points in the seventh periodic report .
They are supported by appropriate European Union structural fund activities .
Supporting only the competitiveness of companies will never be able to compensate for the envisaged cohesion between economic and social development , simply because there is no basis for a self-supporting upturn in these Objective 1 Regions .
After all , the knowledge that economic development alone does not help to combat unemployment substantiates the fact than an increase of at least 3 % in gross domestic product is needed to create any additional jobs at all .
Concentrating to the exclusion of all else on supply and demand-orientated economic policy is not the answer .
And those that do pursue such a policy must invest in expansion for the most part and , to a lesser extent , in rationalisation .
It is imperative for this to go hand in hand with a demand-orientated economic policy if we are to have any chance at all of improving the social situation in these areas .
The situation varies to an enormous degree throughout the regions .
In other words , what is needed is a number of accompanying measures if anything at all is to be accomplished there .
Mr President , my compliments to the rapporteur for his in-depth report .
The key goal of the structural funds is to strengthen social and economic cohesion between the regions within the European Union .
By stimulating a diversity of investments , the European Union is endeavouring to increase the GDP per capita and to boost employment .
From the sixth periodic report on the regions , one can draw the hesitant conclusion that these incentives do not always have the desired effect .
As indicated by the rapporteur , the effects of the structural measures , on the other hand , are minimal as far as employment is concerned .
Some reservation about the effectiveness of Community aid is therefore called for .
Also , the observation that the disparities between regions within Member States sometimes even become more pronounced raises serious questions .
Mr President , it therefore seems worthwhile and necessary to focus attention on both national and regional authorities , especially in connection with boosting employment .
It is , after all , they who have most knowledge about the regions which fall under their remit .
By allowing them to develop tailor-made plans for the relevant regions and , if necessary , tying this in with financial aid , a higher return can be achieved .
Surely this must be the ultimate goal .
I am therefore in favour of the Commission delegating the practical details and implementation of measures to the Member States and regions .
Following on from this , it is probably also more meaningful , with regard to the financial aid to regions , to give Member States more say anyway .
By shifting the criteria from the regions to the Member States , we can avoid a great deal of problems later on .
Finally , I would like to draw attention to the position of the Central and Eastern European countries .
The report shows that , in general , they are a long way behind EU countries , especially in terms of GDP per capita .
With the planned accession of a large number of these countries in the foreseeable future , it is a matter of urgency to review the current structural policy .
I would like to take this opportunity to follow the example of others and call on the Commission to submit proposals for reform sooner rather than later .
Mr President , Commissioner , following close scrutiny of this report one cannot escape the conclusion that it was possible to fulfil the stated objective of the structural policy only in part .
For example , whilst the disparities between the regions have increased rather than decreased , there has been a certain amount of convergence between the Member States themselves in this respect .
Equally , unemployment levels in the worst affected regions barely fell at all , indeed they rose in some cases .
I wonder why it is that the structural funds are not employed more efficiently .
Even the accumulation of money from the cohesion funds and the structural funds has failed to have the desired effect in all regions and countries .
Genuine structural reforms and a competition-friendly taxation policy are the cornerstones of a successful economic base .
If we do not wish to stand accused of pursuing a cost-intensive structural policy that does nothing to improve the unemployment situation in the long term , then the measures drawn up so far must be analysed .
We will only be able to say that the structural policy of the Union has been a success when we manage to create a sufficient number of jobs and when there is a significant reduction in the unemployment rate .
This issue , which has an impact on their everyday life , is a key issue as regards EU credibility .
It has to be conceded that the EU has already aided , I would say quite magnificently , the development of poor countries .
I remember what Portugal and Greece used to be like when I drove through those countries for the first time twenty-five years ago .
The EU really deserves such a gesture , but differences between rich and poor areas within countries are still too great .
What is the result ?
People react by voting with their feet and go where they can earn a crust .
Consequently , we have to build schools , hospitals , and the whole infrastructure for the same people in the same country many times over .
This is very costly and it also causes very great social problems .
Most people , however , would like to live in the area in which they were born and raised , if they were given the chance to , in other words , if there was work there .
We must give them this opportunity .
This is a moral obligation the EU and all of us have .
The solution , as I see it , lies in clearly encouraging entrepreneurship .
By entrepreneurship I do not simply mean the ownership of business , but creating will .
I mean the attitude where a person wants to get on in life , whether he or she is an employee , the owner of a business or an official .
What is a fair society ?
One in which someone from a modest background can get on in life so as to make life a little easier for his or her children .
In this way , positive development of the regions is also possible , because people will start business and will work if they are given the chance .
Mr President , Commissioner , as my time is limited , I shall get straight to the point .
Firstly , let me make a statement of fact : the fruits of growth are not distributed equitably within the Union .
The most remote regions , still hard hit by catastrophic unemployment rates , offer one example of this .
In Reunion , for example , the rate is 37 % .
This is not a situation related to the economic climate , however ; rather it is a structural problem , created by our remoteness , our insularity , in short , our own specific personality .
The principle of specific , exceptional treatment was envisaged in Article 299 ( 2 ) of the Treaty of Amsterdam in order to deal with such cases .
It only remains to put this principle into practice .
The Commission document expected to be ready in December 1999 was delayed until January , then February , and the initial thinking does not fill me with much optimism .
I therefore appeal formally to the Council and the Commission .
As regards taxation , state aid , the Structural Funds and defending our traditional products , practical measures characterised by daring and ambition must be planned as a matter of urgency .
Thank you very much , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
( The sitting was closed at 8.25 p.m. )
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of yesterday ' s sitting have been distributed .
Are there any comments ?
Mr President , I respond to an invitation yesterday afternoon by the President of the House to speak on behalf of my group on a matter referred to in the Minutes .
I refer to item 11 on the order of business .
I wish to express that view even if I respectfully disagreed and voted against the proposal of the President of the Socialist Group .
There is one basic lesson I would like us to learn from this .
When there are major set-piece debates scheduled between this House and the European Commission in the future , we should clear all of our lines on what are our mutual expectations at least one full working month in advance .
There needs firstly to be clarity between all of the groups of this House and then between this House and the Commission .
We should not find ourselves late in the day in the unfortunate position where the one or other institution creates an unnecessary fracture in institutional relationships .
Looking at some of the press reports of last Friday , I believe that the Commission and its President exercised commendable self-restraint in the way they commented publicly .
That is something for which I have a deep appreciation .
It should not be dramatised into something more than that .
Thank you very much , Mr Cox .
I understand what you are saying .
We have taken note of this .
Mr President , concerning item 11 of the Minutes on the order of business , we agreed yesterday to have the Bourlanges report on today 's agenda .
However , it was withdrawn from the Committee on Budgets last night without being discussed or voted on .
It therefore needs to be withdrawn from today 's agenda .
Mr Wynn , that makes sense .
The report is hereby withdrawn from the agenda .
This needs to be looked into because it is clearly an indication that something is seriously wrong .
I do not want to drag up the issue of this building endlessly , but this is a serious problem .
Mrs Ahern , we have taken note of this .
I would ask you to bring this specific case , which has to do with the ventilators on a particular floor , to the attention of the Quaestors , who are , in fact , responsible for the matter .
We will also pass this on to our services , however .
Thank you very much .
( The Minutes were approved )
Reform of European competition policy
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports :
Mr President , Commissioner , today we are engaged in an important debate about the European Union ' s competition policy .
However , we are also discussing the aid report today and the general competition report for 1998 , and my contribution to this joint debate relates to the latter .
But , of course , both the competition report and the aid report share common ground in this White Paper .
It is all about the need for modernisation and the future viability of the European competition policy .
On reading both Commission documents , one learns that 1998 was the year in which the modernisation proposals introduced in 1997 were pursued and even partially completed , which is something our own ongoing parliamentary work has taught us .
It should continue along this path .
Only , without transparency there will be no acceptance , indeed there can be no modernisation without transparency .
The competition report 1998 is not a bad foundation for this but , in fact , there is nothing that could not be further improved upon .
Our motion will give you a great deal of food for thought , Commissioner , but there is one point that I would just like to go into now . Transparency and accountability belong together .
I do not wish to call the distribution of competences between the Commission and Parliament into question .
Here too we should continue along the path we have chosen , strengthening and intensifying it .
Therefore , I would urge the Council and the Intergovernmental Conference to introduce the codecision procedure into legislation in this area .
I expect the Commission to exploit every available opportunity for parliamentary cooperation and to involve Parliament in doubtful cases , even given the Treaty status quo .
I also expect the Commission to be pro-active in supporting us in our call for codecision in legislative procedures .
This will be a good test as to whether there is reasonable cooperation between the two institutions .
With all due respect for the principle of competition , competition is not , however , an end in itself .
Competition is an instrument and does not always produce ideal solutions .
At the end of the day , one of the fundamental tenets of economic theory is that the market is failing in many respects and anyone who takes issue with this is nothing more than an ideologue .
Competition should bring about balance in supply and demand and should provide for the optimum distribution of economic resources and facts .
But optimum efficiency does not necessarily come about of its own accord .
Framework conditions are indispensable when it comes to preventing abuses , monopolies law being one example .
But on the whole , this only serves to prevent abuses ; framework conditions alone cannot achieve socially legitimate goals in isolation .
Competition yes , restrictions in state aid where necessary and where possible .
Indeed it must be permissible for state aid to be provided for such purposes , provided it does not lead to unacceptable distortion of competition .
This is precisely the area where it is even more important than it is in monopolies and mergers law for decisions to be comprehensible .
My last comment was intended not so much for the Commission as for the Members of the Group of the European People ' s Party .
The Commission report is essentially a descriptive report detailing the development of state aid in the manufacturing sector and certain other sectors , according to various typologies , such as the method of financing and the objectives pursued .
This being the case , there are considerable disparities between states , which may be measured in various ways , such as , for example , as a percentage of added value and per wage earner .
I think it is also interesting to add state aid and Community aid , which may be assimilated in some way into state aid .
This clearly shows that it is the four countries which benefit from the Cohesion Fund , among other things , which come at the top of the list .
This being the case , let me now come to the proposals made in the report .
The Commission can only collate and analyse the data provided by the Member States .
It is therefore down to the states and regions to ensure the quality of the data provided , and our committee considers that additional efforts must be made in this respect .
It is in this spirit that our parliamentary committee for example , has championed the longstanding idea of a public register of state aid , accessible via the Internet .
Seven amendments have been retabled for this plenary sitting .
There is in particular one amendment , let me point out , concerning the energy sector , which , in my capacity as rapporteur , I see as particularly important .
I should like to conclude this presentation , Commissioner , by stressing two things : firstly , a concern of the members of the committee and , secondly , a demand of our committee .
The concern involves the pre-accession process for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe , in terms of competition policy and state aid .
And finally , in conclusion , our demand regarding the future responsibilities of the European Parliament in the matters we are discussing , competition policy and state aid , in the context of the Intergovernmental Conference .
As you know , Commissioner , our report argues that the codecision procedure should apply in the case of basic legislation on state aid .
Mr President , Commissioner , my contribution to today ' s debate concerns the steel aid code , that is the state aid in Europe granted in accordance with this code and which was assessed by the Commission .
There were a total of 27 cases in 1998 and the Commission submitted its own report on these .
The ECSC Treaty is due to expire shortly .
Hence , what we must focus on today is the question as to how state aid is to be managed in future .
The competitiveness of the European steel industry also forms the subject of the Commission ' s most recent communication , which we have not yet debated in Parliament .
As in other sectors , the general ban on state aid according to Article 87 ( 1 ) of the EC Treaty also applies to the iron and steel industry .
According to this article , state aid is irreconcilable with the common market , in principle .
Exemptions are only permitted in precisely defined cases .
Under Article 88 , the Commission is obliged to supervise state aid .
In 1998 , the largest case concerned the supply of company capital totalling EUR 540 million to the PREUSSAG in Germany .
Furthermore , the Member States must give the Commission advance warning with regard to their intentions concerning state aid .
The rules pertaining to the steel industry were drawn up on 18 December 1996 .
In addition , there is a special provision of up to EUR 50 million for Greece .
However , there were obviously problems with the practical administration of the steel aid code over the past few years that were not brought fully to bear in the report .
As far as Parliament is concerned , it is important for us to waste no time in getting down to a debate on the regulations that are to succeed this state aid code once it has expired .
There must be no watering-down of the existing principles underlying the steel aid code .
No one wants an unimpeded subsidy competition in Europe .
This would be to the considerable disadvantage of the internal market , regardless of the fact that the steel industry has undergone consolidation in the past few years .
Consequently , Parliament believes it is necessary for the steel aid code to be amended in the light of the industry ' s claims about unequal treatment , and for the Commission to provide the Council with follow-up regulations .
We all know that so far the Council has dragged its feet with regard to follow-up regulations of this kind .
The reason for this is that people are under the impression that once the steel aid code expires , they will be able to do their own thing again without the inconvenience of the European Commission ' s supervision .
We therefore demand that once the Treaty expires , steel aid must be regulated by a Council regulation according to Article 94 , for that is the only way to create the necessary legal validity and clarity .
This is the only way to enforce the strict ban on all aid not covered by the code .
A Council regulation that is directly applicable law must also be observed by the regional governments .
What we need to avoid doing in the future is compromising competition conditions and disturbing the balance in the markets .
Once the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has adopted the draft report unanimously with two abstentions , I would ask that we make full use of this opportunity , which we have ourselves created , in plenary sitting .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the internal market is not complete .
Subsidies , monopolies and barriers to competition are still impeding markets and development alike .
National governments provide subsidies and promise that this is the last time , but then it happens again .
Subsidies distort allocations , both within and between countries .
A successive phasing out of State aid is required , and more and more markets must be opened up to competition . This applies to those which have been turned into monopolies , both private and public .
Public monopolies are , more often than not , phased out reluctantly .
Increased competition and newly established organisations should be able to provide significant benefits in terms of welfare , including within the spheres of education , health care and social services .
Public monopolies must be replaced by competitive structures .
Europe must be modernised , made more entrepreneurial in spirit and adapted in such a way that it becomes a more competitive environment for consumers and companies .
Effective competition pushes prices down and raises standards of living .
It is precisely upon price levels that consumer policy has failed to focus sufficiently . In fact , competition policy and consumer policy belong together .
The internal market is the basis for our work .
Its legislation is to apply equally to all , to large and small countries alike .
A systematic survey of the various national regulations is needed if barriers to competition are to be dismantled . The EU ' s own regulations too may therefore need to be analysed .
The new model now being tested by the Commission ought not to lead to a process of nationalisation pure and simple which would undermine the established competition policy .
In order to be effective , it must be well anchored in the Member States ' national authorities .
In six months ' time , it may be appropriate to carry out an analysis of the outcome and also to look more closely at the new situation ' s effects upon the Commission ' s role .
The question of how best to make further progress has so far been solved through the idea of holding an inter-institutional congress which will open up an unbiased debate adopting a broad perspective and involving representatives of different interests .
The law must be correctly applied in matters of competition .
Wrongly applied competition policy may cause losses in the legal sphere and interfere with the right of ownership , which is an important and basic principle we should stand up for .
We have a quite exciting debate in front of us .
A conference where the issues are properly debated will make it possible to straighten out misunderstandings , at the same time as perhaps improving upon certain points .
Parliament and the Commission can together increase their efforts to achieve an effective competition policy and so create new opportunities and new resources for our citizens .
In fact , in my own constituency of Stockholm , we have many good local examples of increased supply and improved quality which have arisen precisely because of exposure to competition in areas which were previously total monopolies .
We would encourage a continuation of the open debate which has been strengthened in the course of consideration of the reports by Mr von Wogau and Mr Rapkay .
We hope that the legal points of view will also be accorded the importance which is only reasonable in a state based on the rule of law .
Mr President , as a new Member I am pleased to be able to make my maiden speech here today , even though there has been a delay .
I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs Mr von Wogau , Mr Langen , Mr Rapkay and Mr Jonckheer , as well as the Commission , for their excellent cooperation .
All this is to the good of the consumer .
But we have now arrived at a point where we need to develop competition policy further .
The Commission has put forward a new White Paper on this containing two key points : dropping the obligation to notify and retrodisplacement of law enforcement .
Dropping the obligation to notify will mean less red tape and administration costs , at any rate .
At the same time , this change of system will also lead to more onus being placed on the individual in the business world , of course .
However I believe that we should use this opportunity for Europe to set down a marker for less red tape .
The second point relates to the retrodisplacement of law enforcement .
We are not discussing the fact that although every EU law is only ever decided on centrally , it is precisely the adaptation phase where we will experience a lack of legal certainty .
It will certainly be necessary to develop an instrument for this in the anticipated legislative procedure that will enable enterprises to enjoy legal certainty and to have recourse to the Commission in this matter .
The way to a European monopolies commission must be kept clear , something that will certainly form a subject for future discussion .
But we need there to be more transparency in the competition policy .
However , when it comes to what the future holds for competition , there are two issues dear to my heart .
One is subsidiarity .
We all hold the view that competition is vital to the economy and requires there to be efficiency , and I believe we should also permit competition in the regions .
Competition between the regions will certainly strengthen rather than weaken the European Union .
I would cite , by way of example , the issue of job creation schemes , savings banks and regional banks , and Gtesiegel .
Here , a region has , by its own efforts , created a means of marketing its own products .
This own initiative must not be destroyed by European intervention .
I believe there is also a need to raise the de minimis regulation .
We should do everything within our power to force the regions into a situation where they have to compete with each other .
My second point relates to discussion about competition and the social market economy , although I am not going to talk about market failure just now .
I have already referred to the regional and savings bank sector , but I would just like to focus on a matter one hears again and again in certain quarters .
These days , someone who lives in an old people ' s home is accommodated within the social field .
However , I could also regard them as a customer , and I believe we should enter into rather clear and timely discussion on the ways in which the social field , that is evolved structures , stifle competition .
Apart from that , I could refer to any customers , any sector , as customers , and thereby have a highly destructive effect on social fields .
Thank you very much , Mr Radwan .
I would like to congratulate you on what is referred to in German parliamentary-speak , inappropriately in your case , as a maiden speech .
Mr President , Commissioner , I am speaking on behalf of my fellow Member , Robert Goebbels , who is unable to attend due to a political commitment .
Within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , the Jonckheer report has given rise to bitter controversy on the subject of the operation of the market .
A slim right-wing majority succeeded in removing any reference to market failures .
Even if the majority in this House were to adhere to this ultraliberal idea of a supposedly perfect market , it would not make any difference to the real world .
Economic relationships in the real world adequately demonstrate that eliminating all public intervention in the market does not in any way bring about perfect competition and the optimum distribution of resources .
While , since the dawn of time , the market has been the key forum for human interchange , it has never been perfect .
The market favours the short term and immediate profits .
On the market , the balance of power between supply and demand are generally to the detriment of the weakest parties , consumers and workers .
In order to function , the market needs rules .
The necessary and valuable spirit of initiative must be offset by a sense of responsibility towards society .
We European Socialists are in favour of a market economy with a social purpose .
The market is not an end in itself ; it must help to improve the human condition .
The European Union or individual States must not take over from economic operators , but public authorities must define the rules and objectives which enable the economy to develop in a sustainable fashion .
Finally , aid can enable restructuring , offer training , save jobs and thus know-how .
The main objective of the Union ' s competition policy cannot be to reduce the overall level of aid .
This aid must be aligned with the objectives of the Union , particularly economic and social cohesion , sustainable development and research .
The Commission must track down the illegal aid and the aid which actually hinders the internal market .
It would be a serious mistake to eliminate all public aid .
The Internet is not a product of the market , but the result of research financed by the American army .
The World Wide Web , which has enabled the meteoric development of the information society , was developed by CERN in Geneva , once again with public aid .
The German Government ' s intervention to save the Holzmann group was criticised as an unjustifiable constraint upon the market economy .
President Duisenberg even attempted to attribute the weakness , the entirely relative weakness of the euro in relation to the dollar to this state interventionism .
I did not hear Mr Duisenberg criticising the intervention of the American monetary authorities to save the hedge fund , LTCM .
Wishing to save 60 000 jobs is , apparently , a sin against the market , but saving capital does not seem to present any problem for the advocates of the free market .
Public monies are used in order to repair the damage caused by international speculation , as was the case in Mexico , Asia and Brazil .
Human labour , on the other hand , is considered to be a simple factor in the equation .
We Socialists reject the liberals ' nave optimism on this point .
We want a true culture of competition in Europe .
The state hand must still be clearly seen to regulate the market and the Commission must act as judge .
Mr President , Commissioner , I want to begin by thanking Mr Rapkay for a good report and constructive cooperation .
These may well have grand visions when it comes to competition policy , but their capacity to wreak havoc seems boundless .
Let me mention the latest examples we have seen : Holzmann , a company which receives considerable aid from the German Government ; sawmills in former East Germany ; and , especially , aid to shipyards .
These are three areas in which many Danish companies are experiencing major problems and are being squeezed out of their markets .
The Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party has tabled 80 amendments in the committee , all concerning state aid .
These are amendments which we believe will lead to transparency and openness , which is very important with a view to making the internal market work .
I should like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues on the committee for supporting the amendments tabled by the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party .
Another issue is that of what we are to do when state aid is declared unlawful .
How do we ensure that unlawful state aid is paid back ?
At present , there are no common rules in this area , and we vigorously urge the Commission to make a point of harmonising the rules on repayment .
This is the way forward if we are to ensure uniform conditions of competition .
Finally , we propose keeping both a register , as mentioned by a number of my fellow MEPs , and also a scoreboard showing where the Member States at present stand with regard to state aid .
You have shown us the way , Mr Monti , with the single market scoreboard .
It was this which inspired us to propose the same thing with regard to state aid .
I very much hope that you , Commissioner Monti , will support these amendments , and I look forward to your comments and to finding out where you stand on this matter .
To conclude , I want to welcome the Commission ' s XVIIIth Report on Competition Policy , on which , once again , a good deal of work has been done .
But , as I have already mentioned , our overriding objectives ought still to be those of transparency and openness .
Mr President , Commissioner , there are just two questions which must be answered .
Are state aid to business or inter-company agreements legitimate in a market economy , and who must supervise these exceptions to the absolute rules of the market economy ?
It is also legitimate for there to be inter-company agreements and voluntary restraint agreements , since all these agreements make it possible to reduce the detrimental effects of competition on social or ecological requirements .
So our clear response is that , yes , such aid and such agreements are legitimate , but we say that every single one of these agreements must be expressly justified .
The von Wogau report proposes referring supervision of the legitimacy of individual cases to national level .
We feel this is relatively dangerous , but all the same we shall vote in favour of it because we recognise that the Commission cannot do everything .
We demand that the greatest possible transparency should be in place and that greater powers of investigation be granted to the Commission in order to check the legitimacy of such exceptions after the fact .
Mr President , once again we are debating the European Union ' s competition policy .
But let us stop to consider the circumstances in which this debate is taking place and the conclusions to which it should bring us .
The overriding features of today ' s economy are massive mergers and acquisitions involving huge companies with a market monopoly and the emergence of frighteningly powerful multinational groups .
Should we not be discussing this issue ?
We need a competition policy which can and will introduce controls on the activities of these private-sector monopolies .
Certain sectors of European industry , such as the shipbuilding industry , air transport and the steel industry , which have been hard hit by existing competition policy , have suffered tremendously .
They have lost their status , and a significant slice of the world market and hundreds of thousands of workers have been made redundant .
When will we debate that ?
The scandalous concentration of power in sectors of strategic importance is giving speculative multinational groups economies the size of entire states , and Member States of the Union at that .
And yet , we keep on weakening the public sector and we are ready and willing to tighten competition policy yet further by qualifying public procurement contracts placed with public-sector corporations as state aid .
At the same time , unemployment is spiralling as a result of the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs .
Workers are facing a massive attack on their employment and social rights .
We consider the competition policy to be responsible for all this and are totally opposed to it .
Mr President , Commissioner , in the course of this pivotal year , prior to the changeover to the single currency , the Commission has deployed every effort to ensure the birth of the euro in a favourable environment .
The competition policy has , as far as these resources permitted , contributed to this event .
Having said that , governing means planning . It also means being responsible and , in this new context which has been forced upon us , competition law naturally has an essential role to play .
Finally , on the subject of modernising the implementation of Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty , we do not think that decentralised application would necessarily be going in the right direction .
The Commission is , in fact , retaining not only the power to take matters out of the jurisdiction of national authorities , but clearly obliging the national jurisdictions to avoid disputing the decisions of the Commission at all .
National states would thus become the secular arm of the Commission regarding observance of the application of rules which they do not control .
State interference in the economy is , even today , still to blame for the most serious hindrances placed in the way of the market , competition and freedom of choice for European users and consumers .
What is being done may well be very important , but it is still not sufficient .
Mr President , we are holding a special debate : on competition policy and state aid , the government ' s right and left hand , so to speak .
Whilst the EMU criteria are forcing Member States to curb expenditure , the high level of state aid to industry has so far remained in place .
This is understandable , because it is highly likely that Member States which start to cut back on state aid will cause companies to leave , with adverse effects on employment .
But , at the same time , this is not understandable because bad management and non-viable jobs should not be funded by taxpayers ' money .
In principle , only horizontal regulations are permissible because they do not distort , or hardly distort , competition .
The rapporteur ' s Amendments Nos 6 and 7 , therefore , deserve our support .
Amendments Nos 1 and 5 make reference to the phenomenon of market failure because the market instrument in itself does not result in the ideal society .
Vulnerable people find themselves hardest hit .
Market forces must be employed in a sophisticated manner to do full justice to the responsibility of citizens and companies .
If this comes to nothing , then the government has to step in .
The Commission ' s White Paper on modernising competition policy seems more like a discussion paper .
This would be at the expense of legal certainty within industry .
Does the pressure of work within the Commission really decrease when national judges are required to report to the Commission ?
What is the Council ' s opinion on this and is the Commissioner prepared to completely reconsider these points ?
Mr President , a White Paper , by definition , is not something you can take or leave .
It is there to generate reactions and the White Paper has certainly succeeded in doing that .
It forms a sound basis for discussion and is to be welcomed in this sense .
I understand where the authors are coming from and I share their views .
I also assume that you , Commissioner , want to honour the reputation of , and the work put in by , your predecessors and that your offices will pursue the same objective .
I cannot imagine the Commission taking initiatives in order to de-Europeanise or re-nationalise in a thorough manner , but I have my concerns and questions nevertheless .
Firstly , these relate to the coherence of the policy ' s application .
In general , I am a great defender of cultural diversity but not in terms of competitiveness within the internal market .
The internal market needs a uniform competition policy , not only in terms of concept , but also in terms of application .
It is true , there are some European regulations and interpretative statements on the way .
The Commission is also said to have the right of evocation and can give guidelines to the national competition authorities .
But I still wonder if we do not run the risk of ending up in a kind of Echternach procession where we will have to take one step back before we are able to take two steps forward .
So , I would like to hear more about how the Commission will guarantee this uniform application in practice and whether you yourself consider the courses outlined from point one hundred onwards in the White Paper to be feasible .
Secondly , I understand the worry of industry regarding legal certainty .
Many dossiers are currently being filed with precisely this concern .
This instrument will fall by the wayside in future .
Thirdly , I would like to know whether the Commission has looked into the effects its new approach will have on industrial strategy .
Fourthly , I would like to be informed of why the Commission does not choose to apply the invalidity penalty in the case of evident infringements of the competition rules .
Fifthly , with the pending enlargement , I wonder whether the candidate counties will be able to play our game .
They are still in training , as it were .
What guarantees do we have that they will grow into first-class players in the league of the internal market ?
Sixthly and lastly , I would remind you of a point that I have already raised in my report on vertical restrictions , namely the legal privilege of company lawyers .
If the Commission implements the White Paper objectives , it seems to me that discrimination within the internal market and between external and internal legal advisers will become more pronounced and hence even less acceptable .
Is the Commission considering taking any action to allow in-house lawyers in all Member States legal privilege ?
Mr President , I would like , in beginning my speech regarding the White Paper , to congratulate the rapporteur , Mr von Wogau .
The fact that the Group of the Party of European Socialists is very much in agreement with your report is clearly demonstrated by the fact that only one amendment has been presented during this procedure .
We are , therefore , in agreement with the report , Commissioner , as well as the broad outlines of the White Paper .
Since the Treaty entered into force , Community law on competition has been one of the tenets of Community policy .
After almost forty years of being in force , these rules were beginning to show signs of exhaustion .
For this reason , modernisation was essential .
That modernisation came to be particularly necessary for five reasons .
Firstly , the authorisation system ; secondly , decentralised application ; thirdly , procedural rules ; fourthly , judicial application ; and fifthly and finally , excessive red tape .
The system of individual approvals needed urgent reform , as was unanimously requested by specialised companies , academics and lawyers .
I have not attended a single forum of specialists in competition law which has not requested a change to the system .
A system , such as the current one , which is capable of making so few decisions , be they approvals or prohibitions , is something less than a valid system .
National competition authorities were able to apply Articles 81 ( 1 ) and 82 for some time .
However , they could not apply Article 81 ( 3 ) , which , to a certain extent , prevented the coherent application of Article 81 ( 1 ) .
A reform of this point was therefore also necessary .
The procedure in the field of competition is basically contained in Regulation 1762 .
The voices in favour of its amendment were unanimous .
The Court of Justice accepted some time ago that Community competition law could be applied by the legal bodies of the Member States and in 1994 , the Commission published a communication on this subject .
It was therefore necessary to facilitate this approach .
One of the most frequent criticisms of Community competition law is its excessive red tape .
As a consequence of the continental legal tradition , consideration of whether certain agreements are anti-competitive or not depends more on an analysis of their clauses than on their effects on the market .
It was therefore necessary to introduce an economic analysis .
The White Paper intends to resolve these problems and we therefore support these proposals .
It is also true that we note certain deficiencies which have come to light in the report .
Secondly , Regulation 1762 must be repealed and replaced with a new regulation .
For these reasons , we are going to vote in favour of the report .
Frankly , I believe that this modernisation has been satisfactory .
If it functions well , if we are satisfied , if the Commission has basically acted correctly , why the need for the modification ?
Various arguments have been presented in its favour .
Because , if this is not the case , we will be faced with the paradox that the Commission itself will introduce elements of unfair competition into the functioning of the European internal market .
In that event we would not have moved forward , but rather backwards , in the application of competition policy in the Union .
Mr President , I would like firstly to express my appreciation to the Commission for the improvement represented by the XXVIIIth report on competition policy in the Union , when compared to previous reports .
I would also like to highlight the work carried out by the rapporteur , Mr Rapkay , who has dissected this dense and comprehensive text in such a concise way .
I would also like to fully support his comments on the need to allow the regions - such as the Basque Country , which I represent - a margin for action , by virtue of the principle of subsidiarity .
I therefore believe that something is missing and I suggest that we establish more regulations , lay down clear rules , which will benefit all of us : businesspeople , investors , workers and the citizens in general .
This is why I give this report my full support .
I would emphasise that this is going to be extremely important for our future , for Europe ' s economy , and , above all , for the protection of our wealth and technological development in Europe in general .
Mr President , for British Conservatives the efficient and uniform application of European competition policy is at the core of achieving an effective single market across the whole of the European Union .
It therefore follows that any proposal which suggests major reform of the machinery for competition policy enforcement must be closely and carefully examined .
The truth is that the single market is not yet complete .
During my six months as a Member of this Parliament , I have become acutely aware of the determination of many Members to drive forward what is described as the European project .
We daily hear the need to promote a wider and deeper Europe .
But all this , in effect , is so much rhetoric when we look at the national , regional and local obstacles which continue to block the operation of a true European single market .
That is the context in which I want to consider the Commission 's proposals .
I should like to make it clear that we have the greatest confidence in and respect for Commissioner Monti .
We look to him as the man to root out cartels .
But he would recognise that , as for everybody else , we have to consider his particular proposals and subject them to rigorous examination .
That is something that has been done by our rapporteur on the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs , Mr von Wogau .
He mentioned earlier that the report was carried with a significant majority but not with my support .
So although I may not share his conclusions , I believe he has illustrated in his report many of the issues which the Commission must address .
The first is the potential for renationalisation of competition policy .
I know that the Commission is set against this , but the potential exists .
I remain worried about the capacity of national courts and the capacity of the national competition authorities . I remain worried about the whole operation of the judicial process .
I asked Commissioner Monti the other day what happens if he proves to be wrong and there is an effective renationalisation .
Mr von Wogau said we can look to the European Court .
Well , we in Britain are looking to the European Court at the moment .
We find that the European Court is not able to provide us with interim measures in a certain dispute that we have with France at the moment , in which we have the support of the Commission .
So , judicially , something needs to be done .
I ask the Commission what can be done to speed up implementation in this particular area .
In relation to legal certainty , I endorse the point made by Mrs Thyssen .
It is important that business has legal certainty .
I mentioned this again to Commissioner Monti recently .
He said we must not always be carried along by lawyers .
I must declare an interest as a lawyer but also as a former competition minister in the United Kingdom .
We all have , as it were , our histories to live with , but it is important that business has legal certainty .
I would also ask the Commission whether an analysis has been undertaken of the implications of this change for business : a cost-benefit analysis of the sort that is now becoming so much more European policy .
I know there has been an analysis of the implications for the Commission of the change .
We have been told how , currently , people 's time is being wasted and that the changes , therefore , could be beneficial .
But I really feel that , in the circumstances , we want to know what the implications would be for business .
Finally , we , as British Conservatives , are looking for a change in direction , towards the development of an independent competition authority .
I would like to hear what Commissioner Monti has to say about that .
Mr President , the European Union ' s competition policy has been of central importance since European integration began .
It is therefore with some justification that competition policy is one of the most important policies .
We can be proud of a European competition culture , for it is this that will make the social market economy a reality .
We can be proud of monopolies and mergers supervision .
However , we must be vigilant in the face of global operators , against whom nation-states are no longer able to impose limits .
That is why we should bear in mind what was said by the French writer Vivienne Forestier , who described the state of the world in terms of the economy ' s reign of terror .
Society is surrendering itself to the economy .
That is precisely what we do not want in the European Union .
In common with the other Members , I call for Parliament to have codecision rights where competition law is concerned .
It is essential that this long overdue step be taken .
It is also important to underline the connection between competition policy and consumer protection .
I welcome the fact that Commissioner Monti wants to make progress in this area in the dialogue with the European Parliament , as he does in the dialogue with non-governmental organisations , consumer protection associations and the public .
Greater transparency will also help to achieve public acceptance of decisions relating to competition policy .
It is particularly important for there to be clarity in relation to competition rules in view of EU enlargement .
At the same time , it must be made clear that aid can serve a useful purpose , with a view to offsetting the deficiencies of the market and furthering Community objectives .
A word on the White Paper : the revision of Articles 81 and 82 represents a change of direction in monopolies policy .
The system currently in force creates transparency , affords enterprises legal certainty and has , without a shadow of a doubt , led to discipline and acted as a deterrent on account of the notification requirement .
The problem of overwork highlighted by the Commission is not a sufficient reason for making radical changes to the legal system .
Indeed , it is debatable whether this could be carried through at all without amending the Treaty .
Mr President , I am very glad that Mrs Randzio-Plath mentioned the very important context of our debate because up until now no other speaker has done so .
The advent of the euro at the beginning of last year unleashed enormous competitive forces within European business which are being met by a merger wave of quite unprecedented proportions .
I also agree with the criticism that no emphasis has been put on the implementation of Article 82 , especially when we are witnessing abusive conduct in a context of market concentration .
As a Member for the Basque Country , I would like to express my total support for the implementation measures for fair competition in the market .
Mr President , Commissioner , competition is exactly what we need .
In other words , we must succeed in linking the competition criteria that are necessary to the economy with those relating to managerial economics .
I say that as an entrepreneur who has a vested interest in this .
But a system cannot function in this way : it will only work if the two aspects go hand in hand .
I will give you an example : the European Union was right to support the Grnitz steelworks in Brandenburg , although out of 5 000 jobs only 700 remained .
But these are competitive jobs , for this steelworks is now the number two tool steel manufacturer in the Federal Republic of Germany .
It goes without saying that that is not what the European Union ' s competition policy is designed to achieve .
If we want there to be competition then we must establish this link between the requirements of the national economy and the pre-requisites of managerial economics .
Indeed that is the only way to build up regional economic circulation in the under-developed regions that will protect people ' s social welfare and boost purchasing power .
To that end , we must also make it our business to take more account of demand-orientated economic policy as opposed to one focusing heavily on supply .
Mr President , ever since I was elected to this Parliament in 1994 I have never witnessed a report which had such anti-Irish sentiments and overtones as the Jonckheer report which we are debating today .
I believe that the rapporteur is simply playing with figures .
I find it difficult to understand how he can index regional and social funds into this mathematical equation .
I should like to remind the Member that the European Union has agreed to the new regional aid guidelines for the period 2000 plus .
This was merely an extension of the policy objectives to complete the internal market within Europe .
Regional disparities must be overcome if the internal market is to succeed and prosper .
I welcome the fact that grant aid of 40 % and a top-up of 15 % for SMEs for fixed investment will be permitted for companies setting up in Objective 1 regions in Europe post-2000 .
I remind Mr Jonckheer that Irish companies or foreign companies in Ireland still have to cross two sea masses to reach the mainland European marketplace .
No other Member State is at such a disadvantage .
Mr President , the monopolies ' ban is the key element of functioning competition order in Europe .
The Commission deemed the practical administration relating to the monitoring of the monopolies ' ban to be unsatisfactory , something I would wholeheartedly agree with .
But opinion differs as to the solution .
The Commission ' s proposal does not formally deviate from the monopolies ban but the upshot of this proposal is a transition from a ban with permit reservation to a permit with ban reservation .
In other words , we are making the transition from the principle of banning to that of misuse .
Both I and other MEPs utterly reject such a drastic change of system .
I do not accept that a practical transposition problem should give rise to changing the law .
We would be changing the law to make it executable again , which is something I consider to be unacceptable .
The Commission is giving up its monopoly on exemptions .
Competition restrictions are to be automatically exempted against the background of this planned system of legal exemption , insofar as the provisions of Article 81 ( 3 ) of the Treaty on European Union allow .
The requirement to lodge applications in Brussels will be dropped ; in other words , the Commission will be completely in the dark in future .
This is unacceptable to my mind .
The Commission ' s programme is to be supplemented by enhanced follow-up supervision of the national authorities and Member States ' courts .
But if this takes place in the course of renationalisation then what we will have here is a patchwork quilt of competition policy .
This is unacceptable in my view .
It would weaken a key element of European policy .
The change of system in European monopolies law that the European Commission is contemplating is high risk as far as competition policy is concerned .
There are enough other options in the present system to safeguard open markets and free competition .
In any case , the Commission ' s proposal refers back to old proposals that were put forward as long ago as the fifties and sixties .
There was no majority for this at the time .
Since France laid a huge amount of emphasis on legal exemption at the time , it was damaged by concessions in agricultural policy .
Forty years on , this proposal has again been placed on the table and I am certain that it will create room for manoeuvre for the monopolies , to the detriment of Europe ' s consumers .
I consider this to be unacceptable .
Mr President , in this important debate on competition , I am speaking this morning with particular reference to Mr Langen ' s document on the Steel Aid Code .
As the Court of Justice recognised in 1996 , the steel industry is particularly sensitive to competition-related disturbances .
Indeed , several years ago , this was the conclusion of a report that I compiled on the strengths and weaknesses of the European steel sector .
It is therefore necessary to continue to limit state aid for research , development , environmental protection and cases of company closure .
In the same category of ideas , it is essential that Member States fulfil their obligation to be accountable to the Commission for the aid granted to their steel companies .
The Commission suggests shorter deadlines . I agree with this request .
Like the rapporteur , while I am pleased with the Commission report , nonetheless I deplore the fact that it does not cover all aspects of the aid .
Although the Steel Aid Code is expressed in a very clear way , the Commission has authorised granting steel companies aid which is not covered by the categories stipulated by the Code .
In the interests of equality , either the Code must be applied or it must be modified .
We therefore await , and I await , the European Commission ' s proposals on this matter .
Mr President , I am also going to refer to the report by Mr Langen , which concerns aid to the steel industry .
I agree with the rapporteur on two issues .
Firstly , I agree on the need to guarantee equal conditions for aid to all Member States and , secondly , on the need for transparency with regard to this aid .
However , the thing that worries us most , Mr President , is the decrease in prices , by 30 % , owing to imports .
The reason for this decrease is unfair competition from South Korea and Taiwan , in the case of steel , as a result of their different working conditions and conditions governing aid .
Orders in the steel industry and the ship-building industry - we also spoke about this a while ago - have decreased drastically , resulting in a loss of jobs .
I live in a region where the ship-building industry now has very serious problems : Asturias .
With global markets , we need global employment laws and global subsidies .
Competition policy must continue to be accorded central importance and will not be renationalised because this would jeopardise the internal market and Europe as a business location in a global economy .
However , it must be " europeanised " taking into account the principle of subsidiarity .
I also welcome , therefore , the fact that responsibility is to fall to the individual , without the Commission giving up any of its responsibility .
I am in suspense as to how the discussions , which were broadly based , will be incorporated in the first legislative proposal .
The Commission report confirms that , with the exception of Germany , state aid to businesses is increasing .
The Commission finds this worrying only from the point of view of the conditions of competition .
As far as we are concerned , we look at things from the point of view of the interests of the working classes .
Society gains nothing from these massive transfers of public funds to private business .
Take , for example , the car manufacturing sector , where subsidies and state aid of various sorts have increased by 24 % during the reference period .
With what aim ?
Not to save jobs .
All these firms have gone ahead with job cuts and even redundancies .
Not to improve working conditions , for in increasing production with fewer workers , working conditions are made worse .
Did these firms need state aid to survive ?
No , car manufacturers have been making colossal profits for years .
It is because the richest people are being favoured everywhere with state money that throughout Europe social protection is being reduced , public services are being abandoned , hospitals are being closed .
Mr President , today ' s debate is extremely important because the principle of competition has probably been the cornerstone of the internal market .
In accordance with the principle of competition , the legislation has implemented Articles 85 to 94 , competition policy in the strict sense , and the revision of all state aid and tax provisions which may affect competition .
Firstly , fiscal provisions of an indirect nature and recently , thanks to Commissioner Monti , there have been direct provisions , the code of good conduct in particular .
This has worked fairly well , but , as in the famous film Casablanca ' time goes by ' and we must adapt the legislation we have been applying until now to the new circumstances .
In this respect I have observed a significant consensus in all the interventions .
Firstly , it is necessary , in drawing up the legislation , to produce clear and complete rules .
It is probably horrendous , especially in this particular raft of legislation , that there are confused rules , regulatory vacuums and rules that only lay down undefined legal concepts .
This is all the worse - as is the case with the second part of this reform - when responsibility for implementing the legislation lies with national authorities .
Fourthly , and lastly - and this has already been mentioned - the international legal order has changed .
We have seen this in the aborted Seattle Conference and we are now seeing it in the bilateral conferences with different regions or countries of the world .
The principle of competition must now be universal in its application .
Mr President , Commissioner Monti , there is much that is good in Mr Jonckheer ' s report on state aid for manufacturing industry and certain other sectors .
First of all the report reveals Parliament ' s single-minded determination to reduce state aid to ensure that the internal market functions flawlessly .
Many of the report ' s conclusions , however , are cause for concern , at least for our group .
For example , the fact that the amount and level of state aid calculated on a per capita basis vary considerably from Member State to Member State reveals the need for surveys such as this .
Aid that is based on the self-seeking ambitions of a nation gives companies unfair advantages , thus distorting competition and leading to an ineffective , uneconomic division of Europe ' s meagre resources .
The form the aid takes is important .
Forms of state aid that require an effort from the beneficiary are to be supported .
The report on competition policy further stresses the Commission ' s confidence in hard and fast rules instead of putting the emphasis on economic arguments regarding efficiency , which affects competitiveness .
The European economy will never achieve the level of competitiveness desired if we do not show we trust in the markets .
If competition policy is to be made subordinate to the aims of social and environmental policy , real efficiency and economic growth will remain just a dream .
Competition policy has to be seen as part of the whole of the economy and it must be assessed with reference to trade policy and non-material rights : we should not just be emphasising its social dimension .
The aims of social policy can be best realised through stronger economic growth , not by making compromises with regard to decisions on competition policy .
Mr Rapkay ' s report also emphasises the importance of the international dimension with regard to competition law .
In my opinion , it would be good if we could achieve consensus at the international level regarding certain basic principles of competition law .
Aiming instead at harmonised minimum standards will easily lead to a situation where we leap over the lowest hurdle and end up with the lowest common denominator , which will water down all the aims of competition policy .
I would like to thank the rapporteur , Mr von Wogau , for his commitment and I welcome his thoughts .
Another issue concerns the economies of countries involved in enlargement , which may run the risk of remaining assisted economies for ever more if provision is not made for gradual adjustment .
Safeguarding the social function of the market is what makes the difference between free trade , pure and simple , and a system for improving people ' s quality of life .
A point to consider regarding the new rules concerns the economy of the outermost regions and islands , all of which must be protected .
We ought therefore to consider creating two focal points of an external market by instigating profitable relations with Russia and the Mediterranean countries , precisely so that their economies become less peripheral .
I hope - and I thank Mr Monti for this - that the new rules will reflect as many aspects of economic policy as possible and that their social function will be guaranteed .
Mr President , competition is at the heart of the European internal market policy and is also its driving force .
A free and open market can only exist by the grace of competition , marked by clear , uniform rules .
In his report , Karl von Wogau manages to capture this very well .
But Europe is changing .
The economies are growing , we are enlarging to 25-30 Member States .
The European Commission will become overburdened if it pursues its current policy .
It is therefore necessary to modernise competition policy .
This is not in question .
Having said this , I still have concerns about the proposed decentralisation .
How will the Commission , as keeper of the Treaties , guarantee that decisions are taken uniformly in matters of competition in London , Palermo , Helsinki and , soon , Budapest and Ankara ?
This is necessary if legal inequality is to be prevented , and issues of competition will gravitate towards the court where the most lenient judgements are given .
It is not enough to say that , in the Member States , there is already 40 years ' worth of experience .
In the Netherlands , the competition authority is still in its infancy .
This country has a very small market which , unfortunately , is often at the same time defined as the relevant market .
This in contrast to Germany , where a very experienced Kartellamt is exercising its powers within a gigantic market .
Uniformity needs to be worked on .
Think of specialist , national courts with the option of direct appeal to a special competition court at the European Court .
This special court in Luxembourg is necessary in order to build up broad expertise .
Moreover , due to the immense economic and social interests involved , we cannot afford to wait for a judgement to be pronounced two years after the event , as is now quite normal .
What is the Commissioner ' s opinion of this ?
I would like to finish off by making an important point for small and medium-sized businesses .
Through cooperation , small , independent firms must be able to stand up to the large chains .
It cannot be the aim of European competition policy to make life impossible for small businesses .
But we all want to be oarsmen on it . We all belong on the same boat and want to row with you .
I therefore believe it to be absolutely necessary to establish an interinstitutional dialogue so that we might reach a good conclusion and put all the finishing touches to this essential reform .
The many ideas which have been expressed here could be put into three broad categories .
Firstly , there is the concern that some have expressed , in particular Mrs Randzio-Plath , President of the Committee on Economic Affairs , of whether this new system of legal exception is absolutely compatible with the Treaty .
I share that concern and I believe that this issue should be addressed .
Secondly , we have the issue of companies ' legal certainty .
It is true , Commissioner , that the Commission is not a machine for manufacturing legal certainty .
We all agree on this .
On this point I will give my opinion on something which Mr Karas said .
There have only been nine rejections .
But here I would like to call on my experience as a lawyer .
How often has a lawyer with two companies and one project , in the face of a Commission guideline given ex ante , changed that project in order for it to comply with the competition rules !
This is therefore an aspect to be considered .
Thirdly , we have the problem of the uniform application of Community law .
In this respect , the excellent speech by Mrs Thyssen cannot be improved upon .
Here improvements should be made .
Only in certain countries , Germany for example , is there specialised jurisdiction .
Perhaps this is a promising avenue to explore , but we must also explore others .
Commissioner , it is impossible to overstate the importance of this reform .
It transcends competition , it transcends the cohesion of the internal market . I believe that it profoundly affects the meaning of European integration , the meaning of the legitimacy of European integration .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I heartily congratulate the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the entire European Parliament for the great deal of interest shown in competition-related subjects .
In my opinion , Mr President , this joint debate fully bears this out .
We have heard some very thorough observations which both concern the philosophy of economic policy and are important for the institutional order .
Our common aim is to reform and strengthen competition policy , a pillar of the social market economy and of European construction .
I , personally , would sincerely like to thank Mr von Wogau for his commitment in examining the dossier on the White Paper and for the quality of his report .
The groups are : the efficiency of the rules , the risk of renationalisation , consistent application of the rules and legal certainty . I will take these very quickly one at a time .
Efficiency : I am convinced that this reform will strengthen the protection of competition within the single market rather than weaken it .
Of course we have pondered this issue , and we are still studying it extremely carefully , and this is also thanks to the concerns you have voiced .
At the end of the day , I honestly do not believe that this fear is justified .
The Commission proposal accords the Commission a central role in establishing guidelines on competition policy .
The reform does not entail any reduction in the Commission ' s activities , but requires them to focus on the most important dossiers .
So , the reform will lead to the various national competition cultures being transplanted and taking root in the European competition culture - where today various small plants thrive , and they are certainly not all the same .
The fifteen sets of national provisions will gradually be abandoned , permitting greater use of Community law , which a higher number of protagonists will be able to apply .
Allow me to emphasise that this is communitisation , not renationalisation , of competition law .
The question of consistent application : the risk of inconsistent application of competition rules must be borne in mind , but I do not believe that it should be exaggerated .
In a directly applicable exception system , consistency will depend firstly on the degree of clarity of the material rules .
The Commission will make every effort to define the legislative framework , both through general provisions and through its decision-making practice .
Secondly , we will need to set efficient mechanisms in place to prevent disputes , and the White Paper sets out mechanisms for information and consultation .
In this respect , I would like to say something about the excellent idea put forward by Mrs Riis-Jrgensen and Mr Huhne of monitoring implementation .
This then is the idea of monitoring implementation .
I must say that I find this a very good idea that we will probably take up .
Though we have a high respect for the work of national competition authorities and so on , it is evident that we will watch very carefully how EC law is applied by national authorities and courts .
That is why the Commission wants to keep the right to withdraw a case from a national competition authority in the event of incorrect application .
This goes at least some way towards alleviating your concerns , Mrs Peijs .
Concerning Mr Evans ' point regarding the implications for businesses , it is important that the cost-benefit analysis should be seriously conducted .
The purpose of publishing the White Paper is , after all , to collect comments from businesses as well as from other sources .
We have received many excellent observations and contributions which give us the material to make a cost-benefit assessment for business .
We will examine all that material carefully before making a legislative proposal for a new regulation .
There is one point about the impact for firms which is of great importance . This was raised by Mrs Thyssen , Mrs Peijs and Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi : the issue of SMEs .
Many speakers have underlined this .
The Commission is paying particular attention to legal certainty for SMEs .
We are proposing a system which considerably improves legal certainty for SMEs .
Why ?
Is this simply a political gesture ?
No .
In the system we propose reforming our substantive rules in such a way that most SMEs will be covered by block exemption regulations , as in the field of vertical restraints .
Most SMEs have in fact less than 30 % of the market share .
We have a de minimis notice which contains a declaration that since SMEs are not involved in market dominance they are not normally subject to the strict prohibition under Article 81 ( 1 ) .
( FR ) Mrs Thyssen also referred to the matter of legal privilege for company lawyers .
The White Paper requires only a single aspect of the issue to be re-examined : the exchange of confidential information .
The guarantees which companies must be given are currently under discussion .
We share the same basic views but the Rapkay report lays emphasis on several points that we shall need to consider very carefully .
I will mention only two , in order to be brief .
The first is greater transparency .
Parliament knows how important we all consider the question of transparency in competition policy , as I did right from the moment I had my hearing , on 1 September , in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs .
We have very satisfactory bilateral relations with the relevant American , Canadian and Japanese authorities as regards competition policy , and we are working to ensure that competition is treated as a separate topic within the World Trade Organisation .
Mr Jonckheer , I would like to thank you just as warmly for your report on the seventh survey on State aid in the European Union .
I will not talk about codecision here , but this certainly does not mean I do not consider it important .
It has major institutional implications which obviously go beyond the specific area of competition ; I am therefore not qualified to give an opinion , and this is obviously a matter for the broader context of the Intergovernmental Conference .
Mr Jonckheer , Mrs Thyssen and Mr Gemelli raised the issue of the state of preparation of the candidate countries in terms of competition in general and of State aid .
I can only say very briefly , that we are actively working with them on a practical level : they are making preparations , they now all have competition laws and are setting up the relevant authorities .
In connection with the issue of State aid , I would also like to take up one of the points raised by Mrs Riis-Jrgensen , among others regarding repayment of illegal aid .
In April 1999 , the Commission adopted new Rules of Procedure which introduced specific rules on repayment .
In the near future - and I can assure you of this - you will see just how seriously we mean to take these rules .
Finally , Mr President , I would like to thank Mr Langen warmly for his report , which , although geared more towards a specific sector , is a valuable contribution .
When we have finalised our proposal on the new rules and decided on the most suitable legal form , I will be happy to present our viewpoint to you .
I am especially grateful for all of this . We will continue the interinstitutional dialogue opened with the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs , and , at a more general level , with Parliament .
In this regard , I liked your term , Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi : we must all pull together , preferably in the same direction .
Competition is not an end in itself , as Mr Rapkay rightly pointed out , but it plays an extremely important role in European integration .
I would also like to say that competition policy will play a valuable social , as well as economic , role in the European integration process , as it has done in the past .
Thank you , Commissioner Monti .
The joint debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Protection under criminal law of the Union 's financial interests
Particular attention in this respect should be given to combating fraud , to detecting it , punishing those guilty of it and preventing it from happening .
Creating UCLAF by means of the Task Force and setting up the anti-fraud office OLAF were important steps , as was the regulation on protecting the financial interests of the Community and on local monitoring .
The Union can only impose sanctions in the field pertaining to administrative law when cases are exposed .
So far , efforts on the part of the Commission to ask for improperly obtained money to be returned only had limited success .
It is for the Member States to undertake criminal measures .
Then there are differences between the national legal requirements of the individual Member States , together with protracted or even unfulfilled requests for mutual assistance in law enforcement .
What is more , the agreement on the protection of financial interests and the two subsequent protocols signed by the European Council in 1995 did nothing to change this .
For it to enter into force , it must be ratified by all 15 Member States .
After five years only four have done so .
This state of deadlock , which threatens to undermine the credibility of the Union , has inspired Parliament to initiate the setting-up of a European Public Prosecutor ' s Office .
We are giving new life to this idea with this report and call upon the Commission to present legislative proposals that will enable this goal to be realised .
We would like to make two recommendations arising from the establishment of OLAF and which should safeguard its operational and legal efficiency , transparency , and the protection of the rights of individuals .
I support the proposed deadline for the Commission being 30 September in a proposed amendment .
The second recommendation relates to criminal proceedings .
The existing monitoring committee can only monitor the independence of the Director of the agency .
There is no question of this influencing the administration of justice in the Member States .
The Court of Justice is to monitor the legality of the legislative acts .
Further support for this proposal is also to be found in the second report of the so-called Five Wise Men .
The Commission , Mr Barnier , Mr Vitorino and several Member States are equally receptive to the idea .
I call upon you , ladies and gentlemen , to vote in favour of this report , which the Committee on Budgetary Control adopted with a large majority .
We can set another example here , to the effect that Parliament is taking action to prevent mismanagement and in particular , fraud , and to mete out punishment where necessary .
Mr President , I am happy to take the floor in the debate on this report and I congratulate Mrs Theato .
If we had to give a prize for the article which was most difficult to understand , least clear and most confused - however you like to put it - the competition would be very hard fought .
At the same time , it is an especially delicate issue because it deals with the protection of the Community ' s financial interests , as Mrs Theato has explained very well .
We are all aware - and this Parliament has been the steadfast champion in this respect - of the need to protect the financial interests of the Community . But be careful .
The conclusions of the Theato report safeguard them perfectly .
Mr President , this , as Mrs Theato said , is a critical report .
It is a report that has been proposed by the Committee on Budgetary Control and it is an own-initiative report .
One of the reasons why we were very keen to bring this forward was because , whether we like it or not , the European Union has a reputation for fraud and mismanagement .
It is sometimes exaggerated but there it is . We need to do something about it .
A lot of them have not signed up to or not ratified the Convention on the Protection of Financial Interests , and therefore it was clear that something more radical needed to be done .
We need to take this responsibility seriously .
We need to be able to prosecute people who commit fraud against the European Union .
The question is : who prosecutes ?
That is where we really get into difficulty .
Whose responsibility is it when you are dealing with a body that crosses so many frontiers ?
We need also to be sensitive to the concerns of Member States .
The proposal to set up a European public prosecutor service is a very sensitive one .
We are all aware that an all-out federal approach and a situation where a European judicial authority takes precedence over the national judicial authorities is a step too far for some people .
But the discussion needs to begin and we are therefore calling on the IGC to start discussions .
Of most importance to Parliament , as the guardian of the budget of the European Union , is how to deal with people who work within the European Union institutions .
At a time when we are looking at the whole reform process it is critical that we send the right signal .
People need to understand that if they commit fraud they will be prosecuted , and that is not the case at the moment .
The whole question as to whether we have the legal authority to do this has been outlined by Mrs Palacio .
I should like to make clear that my group is going to propose an amendment deleting the detail of how the Commission should tackle this question .
We are aware that it is a delicate debate .
We know that the Commission may perhaps need the scope to negotiate a situation which would be acceptable to all parties .
Can I just make it clear that we have no commitment to a corpus juris here , no commitment to a federal European public prosecutor .
But there is a definite commitment to change the status quo which is totally unacceptable .
Mr President , I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Theato on her report . I think it is a first-class report which will , for the most part , be supported by my group .
I just have the distinct feeling that she would have preferred to take it a little further at this stage .
Judging from the discussions held over the past five or six months , this could well be the case .
We all know that , in 1995 , it was agreed that the Union ' s financial interests should be given better protection under criminal law .
But the Member States failed to cooperate .
This is just a political fact about which little can be done at present , I think .
Unlike the previous speaker , who has now disappeared , my group is strongly in favour of a European Public Prosecutor .
My colleague Jan-Kees Wiebenga , will undoubtedly take this point further because he has already published a report on the same subject matter .
I think what we need is , at European level , to come up with exact definitions of fraud and irregularity as quickly as possible .
I myself have been involved in the committee of inquiry on transit traffic .
This , I thought , is no longer permissible , certainly not at the moment .
I would like to make one general point on politics .
Whatever we may say about the European elections , the low turnout is a fact .
We can improve on this by punishing crime in Europe quickly , and this must be done at European level .
Mr President , I too would like to thank the rapporteur .
Mrs Theato ' s report may help to restore confidence in European institutions .
I believe that is something we are all desperately in need of , bearing in mind the results of the last European elections and of the level of turnout .
Yet , every year we have the same problem .
The Court of Auditors publishes its report , which criticises the Member States on account of various incidences of fraud .
So far , however , the European institutions have not had sufficient means at their disposal to take vigorous action here , to ensure that implementation actually takes place and that matters are remedied .
It is precisely this process that undermines confidence every year .
We will need the European Public Prosecutor ' s Office for this , which will see to it that there are clear legal guarantees , also for suspects .
Having said all that , I must say that unfortunately , my group will not be voting for your report as a united front .
I hope that the debate will convince a few more people .
Unfortunately , however , people still have too many misgivings to the effect that this will be the kind of European institution that undermines subsidiarity .
But I will do what I can to see that Mrs Theato ' s report receives more support .
Indeed , we are talking about criminal law , the area where resistance that national States put up to communitisation is , and will be , fierce .
Indeed , it is unthinkable that we could put in place substantial and procedural legal regulations solely for one sector - that of the protection of financial interests - without first having created a European legal system .
Reading the precise and comprehensive explanations in the Theato report makes you realise just how many problems still need to be resolved and what these problems are .
In any case , this idea must be encouraged , and it will doubtless be during this attempt to protect financial interests that we realise that we need to include a Community corpus iuris in the Treaties .
Therefore , on behalf of my group , I would like to say that we support the Theato report ; I nevertheless think that this is essentially a subject that should be included on the IGC agenda .
Mr President , Mrs Theato ' s report on the protection of the European Union ' s financial interests proposes centralising criminal proceedings by initially creating a European Public Prosecutor .
But the idea of a European Public Prosecutor , on the other hand , aims in the long term to confine the national states to a subordinate role in these matters .
Moreover , this proposal is liable to set off a chain reaction of totally unforeseen reforms .
According to the Theato report , the European Public Prosecutor is needed , in particular , in order to better support the inquiries of the anti-fraud office , OLAF .
At the same time , however , we see from the van Hulten report under discussion today that the European Public Prosecutor should in turn be supervised by a European Union court .
In this way , a small European reform may hide a medium-sized one , and a medium-sized one may hide a large one .
I therefore feel we must carefully consider the balance of power that we are in danger of upsetting if we put forward this type of reform , which appears to be quite specific .
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group , on the other hand , wishes to see a polycentric Europe with nations linked in a network .
And such a network could take the form of improved coordination between national public prosecution authorities , for example , and the creation , if necessary , of national teams specialising in offences involving Community finances .
So the legal framework , Mr President , is already in place .
It is fine , in principle . It need only be fine-tuned .
Mr President , Mrs Theato is proposing institutional revolution for a twofold reason .
Mrs Theato probably forgot to include a European prison now that we have the FBI , the European police , in the form of OLAF .
And indeed there is a twofold shift .
Firstly , the classic Eurofederalist ideological shift , a single market , a single VAT , a single diplomatic service , a single army and now a single criminal code and a single public prosecutor .
Next we have the Puritan shift : the Teutonic Europe of the North , the Europe of the Lutherans , Calvinists and Quakers , wishes to inflict its moral order on us .
Basically , the more we lose our grip on morals , the more we tighten our grip on our wallet .
Mr President , it is essential for there to be effective protection under criminal law of the financial interests of the European Union , more so these days than there used to be .
The fraud and corruption scandals of the past have had a profoundly damaging effect on the confidence of Europe ' s citizens .
The credibility of the efforts we make here in Parliament to employ our finances properly stands and falls with the efforts we make to deal with such scandals and prevent them from arising in the future .
This does not just mean administrative changes but also structural changes ; in other words we must create instruments which are actually capable of affording protection under criminal law .
The Intergovernmental Conference 2000 will provide the appropriate forum for discussing this .
There is no doubt that I myself am one of the advocates of this principle and one of those who oppose any further extension of competences at European level .
When it comes to the demands made on the Intergovernmental Conference agenda , it is the call for there to be clear delimitation of competences that should take centre stage .
Taking these aspects into account , I consider it appropriate that we create a framework of this kind , as proposed , and I also consider it necessary to the further development of OLAF .
Mr President , will a European Public Prosecutor be able to abolish football fraud involving EU funds ?
I do not believe so .
On the other hand , we can go a long way using the existing tools .
An alternative to the European Public Prosecutor could be Eurojust , as proposed at the last Summit .
In the way it is structured , Eurojust should correspond to Europol and support investigations into crimes .
It is just such practical cooperation there is a need for .
I nonetheless agree with the rapporteur that it is quite unacceptable that most Member States should still not have ratified this Agreement .
It is simply too bad , and I can well understand why people are becoming impatient and demanding that we have a common European Public Prosecutor ' s Office instead .
However , it would be quite a mammoth task to establish such an Office .
It is , after all , only the most serious crimes which would have consequences under criminal law .
Ninety per cent of cases would be disciplinary matters concerning negligence or incompetence .
Instead , there is a need for proper internal control and the ability to sack people more easily .
We should alter the staff regulations and disciplinary procedures and , especially , change our practice .
At the moment , Article 52 of the staff regulations concerning dismissal on the grounds of gross negligence is never used .
Should we not make a point of cleaning up our own act and putting our own house in order before we plunge into constructing grand new institutions !
Mr President , we all want to do something about combating European fraud .
But the question is now : is the European Union doing anything about it as well ?
The answer to this is that we know very little about this .
The Tampere Summit was about combating crime .
Everyone was supposedly pleased about it but , in reality , we have made little progress .
There is no European anti-fraud legislation in force because the Member States , as was stated before , have not ratified the treaty texts submitted .
So a great deal has to be done in this area .
And what exactly should be done ?
Two things , and Mrs Theato ' s report clearly spells these out .
Firstly , the same penalty clauses regarding European fraud must apply in all Member States of the European Union .
So , unification in this small area .
The European Public Prosecutor ' s Office is nothing to be afraid of . I feel there is a lot of scaremongering going on .
It is , in fact , something very positive .
Just like Europol .
Europol , involving police cooperation , does not rank above the national police forces , but is there for the purpose of exchanging information between police forces .
This is exactly the task which a small , limited , European Public Prosecutor ' s Office should carry out , not just at the criminal investigation stage , but also at the prosecution stage .
Parliament supports this .
The Committee of Wise Men supports this .
I urge the Council of Ministers and the European Commission to do the same .
Mr President , I want to concentrate on the issue of corpus juris .
I would very much like to support what Mrs Morgan said on this issue .
Corpus juris is something that was set up without any kind of public debate or public participation .
The idea of a European Public Prosecutor on the continental inquisitorial model with overriding jurisdiction throughout EU territories would have a major impact on the traditional systems both in Ireland and the UK .
The idea of a single criminal code and the European Public Prosecutor is something which Member States have a right to be informed about .
Indeed when the plan was initially drawn up they said it would be restricted to cases of fraud against the EU budget .
We need a public debate on this .
We need the Member States and the citizens in the Member States to be properly informed .
The issue of the threat to the traditional legal system in Ireland and the UK needs to be addressed .
There needs to be much more openness and transparency on this issue than there has been to date .
It is unacceptable that something like this has been foisted on the Member States of the EU without any proper public debate .
With this text we are undoubtedly forcing the issue , since we believe that there are points that must be resolved and it is important for Community fraud to be curbed , to be crushed .
Nevertheless , the way in which our committee intends to see this text through , with the drive and stubborn desire of its Chair , Mrs Theato , will not be without its critics .
Another major criticism of the text concerns secondary law .
Article 280 of the Treaty allows the Council to pinpoint the appropriate instruments to curb fraud .
We wanted to express our perplexity as regards these points by abstaining in committee .
We find ourselves dealing with some very serious events , which in the past seemed to be the norm .
I feel that we must clearly safeguard the Community ' s interests , its image and its relationship with taxpayers , who are an indispensable and essential part of Community life .
For this reason , it is right to look at the issue of safeguarding common interests , and to establish better links with legal systems within the individual States .
In this respect , we are faced with the most sensitive issue : what role would a European Public Prosecutor play in relations with the individual national communities and their domestic legal systems ?
This issue needs to be explored further in both cultural and practical terms .
Today , we run the risk of adding a new institution to the already numerous and varied institutions which exist within each country .
Mr President , I would very much just like to add to two particular points .
Sometimes it is worthy of satire and merits discussion , but I digress .
The point I want to make relates to Mrs Theato ' s report .
We obviously have difficulties there with regard to the legal basis .
We also face difficulties with regard to offences .
Nothing has changed there .
As far as that is concerned , I believe there are judicial uncertainties that need to be overcome .
Mr President , for years , Parliament has called for specific and uniform protection under criminal law of the Union ' s financial interests .
On the other hand , more pro-active attempts , such as OLAF , which is currently operating , have not allayed legitimate concerns about the system of guarantees for individual rights .
Nevertheless , it raises some very basic questions .
Surely these subjects will be of the greatest relevance to a revision of the treaties which will contribute to the stability of the area of freedom , security and justice ?
Mr President , the EU is now exposed to tough scrutiny .
Confidence in the European Union has been seriously damaged . To remedy this , vigorous efforts are required .
We therefore welcome increased resources for OLAF so that we can investigate any suspicions more efficiently .
At the same time , we think it is obvious that those who commit crimes against the EU must be able to be held accountable in an effective way .
It is unfortunate that the convention for protecting the Union ' s financial interests has been put into effect in so few Member States .
We therefore think it only right that the Commission should have the task of tabling proposals entailing the further development of the already existing legal framework .
On the other hand , I am not convinced that making the process more efficient in this way requires common European legislation or centralisation of the fight against crime .
In the present situation , I am therefore sceptical about the idea of a European prosecutor , which it is scarcely possible to implement within the framework of the present treaty .
We have more confidence in Eurojust , where prosecutors from the individual nations cooperate .
The major problem is not that no measures are being taken against crimes committed against the Union but , rather , that these are committed so often and far too seldom discovered .
The challenge for the Commission and for ourselves is , however , to find the right mix .
The mismanagement and examples of fraud which occur ought not to lead to our ending up in an old-fashioned hierarchical bureaucracy which , through an exaggerated supervision of detail , prevents the development of a modern administration .
We therefore welcome the aggressive approach of Mr van Hulten ' s report .
The main idea ought to be that each administration takes responsibility for its own supervision .
Our experience of modern administration tells us that openness , decentralisation of responsibility and qualified evaluation are often as effective as detailed bureaucratic supervision .
The major challenge is , therefore , to create a modern and efficient administration without compromising on supervision and the rule of law .
This requires staff training , more modern recruitment methods and , above all , openness and public control .
Being able to scrutinise the administration effectively is the best protection against irregularities .
The Commission has given its commitment to this task and the draft for the overall package of internal reforms documents this .
Parliament is committed to this task , which is something this report bears impressive witness to .
The Commission wholeheartedly agrees with the rapporteur that this is an unacceptable situation
OLAF , the European anti-fraud office is one of the most important instruments the Commission has for fulfilling its obligation to combat fraud .
This is why the Commission resolved on raising a complaint against these two banks at its last meeting , and I hope that Parliament approves this step .
The second recommendation in this report relates to assessing the legitimacy of the investigative measures undertaken by OLAF in the various European institutions .
I am fully in agreement with the monitoring committee and the rapporteur on this point .
In other words , there is a loophole here which must be filled and I will examine the solution advocated in the report in the interests of moving things on .
There is one thing I would ask though : I believe we must prevent the debate on extending the legal basis for OLAF from leading to the misconception that OLAF does not now have enough authority .
No , there must be no undermining of OLAF ' s authority , and neither do I think this was the rapporteur ' s intention .
As such , I would ask you to give OLAF ' s work your full support , also in its present form .
Thank you , Commissioner Schreyer .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
VOTE
( Parliament approved the Commission proposal )
Heaton-Harris ( PPE-DE ) .
Mr President , on a point of order I should like to ask you for clarification of the Rules of Procedure : namely Rules 133 ( 2 ) and 138 ( 4 ) .
These are both about voting .
That is quite right , Mr Heaton-Harris . I put the matter to a vote by a show of hands because none of the groups had requested voting by roll call .
You know that voting by roll call or electronic checking only takes place if Members of the House request it .
In this particular case , I can assure you there was a large majority in favour of the directive which we have just voted on .
Mr President , I was not referring to that particular vote but to votes in general .
It is obvious that some presidents do not look at the hands , so to speak , but go straight to the electronic voting system .
I was wondering whether this is the correct procedure .
I know it takes longer , but should we not always have a show of hands first ?
I shall , I assure you , Mr Heaton-Harris , pay particular attention to the show of hands .
I hope to see many hands raised when the time comes to vote .
( Parliament approved the Commission proposal )
( Parliament approved the Commission proposal )
Procedure without debate :
( Parliament approved the legislative resolution )
Mr President , as far as the second reading is concerned , the Commission can only accept one proposed amendment put forward by Parliament .
The Commission hereby adopts this amendment and accepts it .
( The President declared the common position approved ( as amended ) )
( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE- Own resources
.
( FR ) The European Union is apparently financed through four own resources .
Since then , Community VAT fraud and distortions in the calculation of GDP , the taxable basis for the fourth resource , have had a perceptible effect on the yield and justice of Community resources .
Since then , of course , this Europe with pretensions to federalism is now more than ever financed like the commonplace intergovernmental organisation it actually is , but which it refuses to see itself as .
This can be clearly seen in the regulation before us .
It shows a concern with the accounting involving own resources , the process of making them available or with the monitoring of declared amounts made available to the Commission .
Furthermore , the new Advisory Committee that has been created is made up of representatives of the taxpaying Member States .
This is a long way from offshoots such as the " Community criminal code " , the " European Public Prosecutor " or a European police force , with OLAF .
There is as yet no federal European tax .
All the same , a Europe with 25 members will be wanting a European tax on income , if not on profits , or the tax on CO2 to finance the budget for 2025 .
Koch Report ( A5-0105 / 1999 )
- ( FR ) It is with great satisfaction that I welcome this report on improved harmonisation in the training of safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods .
In recent years , the transportation of dangerous goods nationally and internationally has increased considerably , increasing the risk of accidents .
Some of these risks were due to an inadequate awareness of the risks inherent in such transportation .
It therefore proved necessary , in the context of establishing the internal market , to adopt some measures intended to ensure better risk prevention .
Directive 96 / 35 / EC was a response to this requirement .
In order to facilitate achieving this objective , Directive 96 / 35 / EC provided for the appointment of safety advisers for dangerous goods who would have appropriate professional training .
This professional training would be targeted at awareness of the terms of the legislation , regulations and administrative conditions applicable to such transport .
While this represented significant progress at the time , the lack of specific terms governing the harmonisation of examination requirements proved to be a problem .
In order to be realistic , I further support postponing the date for the application of these conditions until three months after the directive itself comes into force .
Koch Report ( A5-0104 / 1999 )
Last October I expressed my views on the Hatzidakis report on the transport of dangerous goods by rail .
The views I shall express today are not far removed from those I had then .
I shall point out that a directive on the approximation of Member State legislation on the transport of dangerous goods by road came into force on 1 January 1997 .
This included a number of interim conditions valid until 1 January 1999 .
This is the time when we should have expressed our opinion of the Commission proposal to put an end to the derogations .
This is exactly what happened in the case of transport of such goods by rail , except for the fact that a time limit had been decided .
Right now we do not have the slightest idea as to when the CEN will be in a position to put forward practical proposals .
Until then , there is really no point in Member States amending their national regulations .
The report also accepts that some flexibility may be adopted , and grants States the option of adopting or applying alternative standards .
They may , therefore , continue to enforce their own standards regarding certain types of pressure vessel used for transportation , where there are no applicable European standards .
They may also adopt alternative conditions for transportation of a local nature and for ad hoc transportation .
In offering this explanation of my vote , therefore , I wished to express my deep dissatisfaction and my deep concern .
Schroedter Report ( A5-0108 / 1999 )
Mr President , I wanted to press home my explanation of vote by this oral explanation following on from the Schroedter report with regard to regional development .
I would urge both the Member States and the Commission to give sufficient consideration to the huge disparities in wealth which continue to exist between the different regions in Europe .
Not only the difference in income per capita but , above all , large disparities in employment continue to give cause for concern .
Despite the fact that the Community , through the structural funds among others , injects considerable sums into combating the disparities between regional development opportunities in Europe , these disparities continue to exist .
I regard that as a very unsatisfactory state of affairs .
I hope we can revisit this issue at a later time .
I want it to be clear that though I voted in favour of the report , I have this important reservation .
- The Schroedter report speaks of the need to promote partnerships with regard to the spending of EU Structural Funds in Europe for the period 2000-2006 .
As a Member of the European Parliament for the constituency of Leinster , I have always supported the need for the implementation of bottom-up schemes supported by national EU funds .
I believe that the Irish Government and the European Commission and different EU governments cannot alone decide on specific spending priorities .
I believe that local authorities and groups from the private and voluntary sector should be fully involved in the decision-making process for the spending of European Structural Funds .
The Leader III scheme is set to be implemented some time later this year .
The Leader programme at its core affords an opportunity for public , private and voluntary groups to pool their collective talents so as to create long-term and sustainable jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas .
This is a classic example of how the partnership concept operates and such schemes must be supported in its broadest remit .
The European Peace and Reconciliation Fund has also been a success in creating jobs in border counties in Ireland .
During the next round of EU Structural Funds 2000-2006 , other EU initiatives such as " Equal " and " Urban " will be operating .
These initiatives must also involve the participation of local authorities and local communities in an effort to identify where best European Structural Funds should be spent .
This is very sensible because key economic and social difficulties in our country cannot be overcome unless there is key integration between national , European and local funding .
.
( FR ) This report takes us back to the question of why we even have a regional policy .
In order to reduce disparities between regions , of course .
But more especially because , even though at first sight the European market guarantees us improved functioning of the economy , it may also be a source of inequality .
Jacques Delors was accustomed to saying that the market was short-sighted and hence the political need to reduce disparities .
It is precisely this phenomenon of solidarity which lies behind the European social model , which we are all in favour of , and which gave rise to the idea of economic and social cohesion .
Mrs Schroedter ' s report marks a further step towards the transparency and effectiveness of structural aid .
This is the reason for the request which we are putting forward again to establish a management unit for structural assistance in the Member States , which would coordinate the implementation and administration of aid .
In order to do so , the monitoring committees must be opened to include Members of the European Parliament , associations and industrialists concerned by the projects and also civil society .
These guidelines represent a step towards the improved effectiveness of Community structural aid .
Amended again as such by the Schroedter report , they are a step in the right direction .
They also call for a general debate on the future of the cohesion policy after 2006 , but that is another subject .
In the meantime , let us support this first step .
- This report calls for drastic cuts in the level of illegal state aid dished out by some Member States .
Although I wholeheartedly support this aim , I would much rather see such aid eliminated altogether .
In my mind , illegal state aid amounts to little more than state-sponsored social dumping .
We all oppose social dumping when perpetrated by fat cat industry , we must also oppose it when perpetrated by governments .
If we are to have an effective single market that makes European industry globally competitive and generates wealth and employment for all Europeans , then we must have a level playing field .
Illegal state aid , by contrast , destroys competitive companies and creates unemployment .
There are , of course , cases when state aid can be necessary and legitimate , for example helping companies restructure .
In all such cases , however , strict criteria must be met and prior approval from the European Commission gained .
Whether we are talking about beef to France or about backhanders to industry , EU Member States must not be allowed to flout the law .
I enthusiastically support the report 's proposal to publish a " scoreboard " showing the amount of state aid per Member State .
Countries that claim to be at the heart of Europe but which systematically break its rules should be named and shamed and their hypocrisy revealed .
Member States cannot be allowed to proclaim European solidarity in public while trying to undermine the single market in private .
I take some mild encouragement from the fact that levels of state aid to industry in Europe appear to be falling .
Much remains to be done , however , and I call on the Commission to be far tougher in exposing the subsidy junkies of Europe .
.
Unfortunately , the European Commission has already moved ahead with its guidelines and Parliament ' s position on the programmes for 2000-2006 does not carry much weight .
The truth is though , that the Commission ' s guidelines do not fully meet these objectives .
In the first place , if administrative procedures are not simplified , it will be hard to attain Community objectives on reform , with a view to greater efficiency and concentration .
This is why the mid-term review , provided for under Article 42 of Regulation 1260 / 99 , will be of considerable importance .
In general , the current guidelines cannot be considered as clear or transparent .
That said , the differing approach adopted in the guidelines , which are not geared to geographical objectives , but rather to policy areas , can be considered as positive .
We could say that , in this state of affairs , we have once again missed the opportunity to really strengthen sustainable urban development by ring-fencing ever-increasing urbanisation and , hence the destruction of the countryside .
I must also stress that once again the Commission is , in fact , skirting the issue of practical action on equal opportunities .
In conclusion , the document is not particularly satisfactory , and in some aspects is disappointing .
Berend Report ( A5-0107 / 1999 )
.
( PT ) We basically agree with the assessment and the thoughts put forward by the rapporteur concerning the sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the European Union .
We shall therefore confine ourselves to highlighting a few issues .
This situation shows that it would be a mistake to leave adopting measures for promoting employment to the exclusive internal control of the Member States , which is what the report proposes .
. ( FR ) The Berend report gives us an interesting analysis of the situation and economic development of the regions of the European Union .
Nonetheless , the French members of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group feels it cannot approve some of the statements made therein .
Paragraph 26 , for example , " Draws attention to the special need to consolidate the budget as a prerequisite for the success of economic and monetary union and the enlargement of the Union " .
Expenditure becomes an end in itself , evidence of the success of a programme .
The statistics published by the European Commission in its sixth report do however show , as Mr Berend pointed out , the limitations of the policy being implemented :
The poorest regions are gradually making good their underdevelopment .
In 1986 , the average of the 10 poorest regions amounted to 41 % of the overall Community GNP . In 1996 it was 50 % .
Progress is particularly marked in Portugal and Ireland .
This is a generalised tendency , sparing neither the Rhne-Alpes , nor Alsace .
It has been confirmed in Sweden and Finland , countries where unemployment has in fact increased to a worrying degree over the last few years , as in many regions of the United Kingdom .
Based as it is on such choices , it is to be doubted whether regional policy can contribute to harmonious regional planning within the Member States of the European Union .
von Wogau Report ( A5-0069 / 1999 )
As an example I would give the restructuring of ABB Alsthom Power . A sizeable delegation of employees of this firm from throughout Europe is visiting Strasbourg today .
The management of ABB Alsthom Power , following a merger carried out in June 1999 , announced restructuring where there is already the prospect of layoffs in a number of countries .
This damaging situation for employment raises many questions , particularly regarding the information given to the European Works Council , in existence since 1996 .
It suggests that the Community directive on European Works Councils must be updated and strengthened .
It also requires the monitoring of mergers taking employment , the environment and consumers into consideration .
Since the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs did not go far enough in this respect , I abstained .
.
This partial renationalisation of competition policy could involve higher costs for Member States .
But it does , at least , make it possible to anticipate some rather interesting options for development of the European Union .
Admittedly , this reform is one of increasing flexibility rather than dismantling .
Indeed , the White Paper envisages that the Commission will retain the supervision and central direction of the new system .
Moreover , the von Wogau report , which the European Parliament has just voted on , supports it in so doing .
But at the same time , one can clearly see that the upheaval caused by enlargement may lead to Community competences being limited and subsidiarity being extended .
It is a quite different Europe which is taking shape in the long term .
Is this not , indeed , what is so distressing to some Socialist Members of the European Parliament ?
The German Social Democrats voted against the von Wogau report because , in their view , it might break up European policy on competition , which is to say , in plain terms , attacking the standardising superstate .
Curiously , a number of employers agreed with them , preferring the European " one-stop " system , which they consider to be more economical and more stable legally .
Indeed , this is one advantage of the present system .
Rapkay Report ( A5-0078 / 1999 )
The Members of Parliament from the Lutte Ouvrire Party shall not be voting in favour of these reports on European competition policy .
Competition is a war which has major concerns fighting each other , which constantly takes the form of layoffs , factory closures , not to mention extensive waste of production capacity .
We see a further example of this with the planned layoffs in Europe proposed by the corporation ABB Alsthom Power .
Eighteen million unemployed and 50 million poor people within the European Union , despite its being one of the wealthiest regions in the world : these are the results of this competition which the European institutions intend to promote .
This is repulsive most of all in social terms .
Whether it is a matter of the balance of the biosphere , culture or cooperation with the third world , excessive competition is a factor increasing regression and insecurity .
Do you imagine that the 18 million unemployed people in Europe are victims of too reticent an application of this competition policy ?
We are convinced that the opposite is true , and we do not think that state aid is by definition excessive .
Excessive in comparison with what iron rule , what criteria of efficiency ?
Finally , after Seattle , do you really think you can advocate increasing the role of the WTO ?
Only the legal advisers to multinationals could demonstrate such stubbornness .
Jonckheer Report ( A5-0087 / 1999 )
I am happy with the rapporteur ' s treatment of state aid and I congratulate him on this .
There is too often a tendency to criticise state aid harshly as a measure causing distortion in competition .
Admittedly , an effective competition policy is a prerequisite for the proper operation of the internal market and of economic and monetary union .
Clearly though , it must be monitored , a task which falls to the European Commission .
The aid which Union Member States allocate each year to the sectors under consideration reached a total of EUR 95 billion in the period 1995-1997 , including 40 % allocated to the manufacturing sector .
This aid is considerably less than the previous period , 1993-1995 ( a 13 % drop in the total amount and a drop from 3.8 % to 2.6 % in the amount of aid to the manufacturing sector ) .
This downturn in aid is chiefly due to the reduction in aid granted to the new German Lnder .
Like the rapporteur , I deplore the fact that the figures given in the report do not cover all state aid .
The European Commission must make good these omissions as soon as possible .
It must also cooperate with the Member States in order to improve the quality of data in good time , which is to say in time for the ninth report .
I think it would be a good idea if the Commission published a register specifying the amount of state aid per Member State .
I also deplore the fact that the European Parliament has been totally excluded from the Advisory Committee on State Aid .
In order to compensate for this situation , the European Commission should be obliged to make regular reports to us .
This is why I should like to see the next report on state aid include some assessment of the effect of such aid on employment , industry and craft businesses in the beneficiary countries .
Langen Report ( A5-0073 / 1999 )
In the important debate on competition this morning , I expressed my views on Mr Langen ' s report on the implementation in 1998 of the sixth Steel Aid Code .
Just as the Court of Justice recognised in its order of 3 May 1996 , the iron and steel industry is particularly sensitive to disturbances to its competitive operation .
This , indeed , is the purpose of the sixth Steel Aid Code .
At the same time , it is , of course , essential to avoid any disturbance of competition conditions or of the markets , hence the importance of regulating such aid .
It is therefore essential to continue to restrict state aid to research and development , environmental protection and aid granted in the event of plant closure .
The Commission suggests that Member States submit their reports within a time limit of two months following the end of each six-month period or , at least , annually , without the need for reminders .
Like the rapporteur , I am pleased with the Commission report , but I did deplore the fact that the report did not cover every aspect of the aid .
In the interests of equality , there are grounds to either apply the Steel Aid Code strictly or modify the Code if the Commission wishes to authorise types of aid other than those legally acceptable at the moment .
Finally , we have the problem of the consequences of the expiry of the ECSC Treaty .
The aid system must effectively be continued beyond 2002 .
My feeling in this respect is that only a Council Regulation can provide the necessary legal certainty and ensure an official ban on any aid not covered by the code .
For all these reasons I voted in favour of the Langen report , and I now await the Commission ' s response to our requests and demands .
( The sitting was suspended at 1.05 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m. )
Oil slick off the French coast
The next item is the Commission statement on the oil slick off the French coast .
Mrs de Palacio will open the debate on behalf of the Commission .
Mr President , I shall be speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group , but also as an elected representative for Brittany , and I am therefore directly concerned and shocked by these events .
Together with Mrs Grossette and the PPE-DE Group , we tabled a motion for a resolution .
I am pleased to see that we have today arrived at a compromise motion .
A disaster of this scale could almost certainly not have occurred along the American coastline , and why ?
If , I repeat , we had had regulations of this type , then this disaster would surely not have occurred .
This is why we think that the applicable legislation must be reviewed , particularly the 1992 protocol which has exempted the shipowners , in this case the oil tanker charterer , from any liability .
Well , if the charterer is exonerated , then of course he is less concerned with the inspections which oil companies are responsible for .
The regulations must therefore be reviewed , and I thank you , Commissioner , for highlighting the inadequate features of current European regulations .
Moreover , as you said , monitoring must above all be stepped up : that of the flag state , that of the classification societies .
You told us that RINA was an Italian classification register recognised by the Commission .
What are the conditions for this recognition ?
What guarantees are there of its reliability ?
You are going to commission a fact-finding mission .
We await the outcome with great interest .
Inspections by the maritime authorities and supervision within European ports must also be tightened up .
This obligation is not respected either in France or in many other European countries .
Why not ?
What conclusions has the Commission already drawn or what conclusions is it going to draw ?
I also think it essential to step up the level of inspection that the charterer is responsible for , in this case , the oil company .
If the charterer ' s liability entails a financial commitment , then doubtless the inspection will be enforced to a greater extent .
Finally , we need some coordination of national maritime authorities in order to achieve some sort of European facility comparable to the coastguards who supervise the coasts of the United States .
Here we are here again in this Parliament discussing yet another maritime disaster .
I could reel off the list of disasters that have afflicted this industry in my 10 years in this Parliament but I only have three minutes .
How many more Erikas do we have to endure before the powers that be deliver to us a proper port state control that is effective throughout the whole of the European Union , not just certain areas of it ?
How much more pollution do we have to endure before the industry delivers us tankers with segregated tanks and double holds ?
How many more seabirds are to die before shipping companies end the practice of cleaning their tanks at sea which , as our resolution points out , causes far more pollution than any Erika-type disaster ?
We need the Member States to act quickly and decisively .
We need our governments to put up the financial resources needed to give us effective control and we need them also to stop dragging their feet when it comes to maritime safety .
The Erika cost no human lives but it may have ruined many human livelihoods . Just as the Sea Empress , just as the Braer did .
It is absolutely certain that all three left us with an ecological disaster .
The time for resolutions has passed . What is now needed is action .
Sadly , I fear , the Council will yet again fail to act and we will be back in the future discussing yet another maritime and ecological disaster .
Mr President , every time there is a disaster of this kind people say it must never happen again .
In reality we can never stop accidents happening at sea , but it is incumbent upon us all to learn the lessons whenever an incident of this kind takes place and apply those lessons to reduce risks in future .
The " Erika " incident was serious especially for the people of Brittany most closely affected , but it was devastating for the wildlife of much of Europe .
Some say that it is the worst accident that has ever befallen the bird life of this part of Europe .
The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds believes that as many as 400,000 birds , perhaps mainly guillemots , may have died .
The pictures many of us will have seen of oil-soaked birds being put down by veterinary officials were both distressing and tragic .
We all want the highest standards for ships whatever flag they may be flying .
I agree with every word the Commissioner said in her remarks , but the question is , how long will it take to ensure that measures are introduced to deal with the problem in the way she proposes ?
The thought of an incident of this kind occurring in the near future should concentrate her mind and the minds of her officials wonderfully .
With every tide , the volunteers , members of the armed forces and firemen remove great pancakes of this thick , sticky , black tar .
When will we see a return to cleanliness and the end of this devastating accident ? "
Indeed this disaster involving the Erika , like that of the Russian vessel in Turkey , moreover , is unacceptable and intolerable at a time when the ultimate hi-tech technology is available .
It is all the more unacceptable for such a thing to occur twenty years after the Amoco Cadiz disaster , despite our saying at the time and many times since , " Never again ! "
It is , of course , the responsibility of policies , and therefore our responsibility , to guarantee the safety of sea transport .
We absolutely have to guarantee our citizens that a disaster of this type will never happen again .
Indeed , we must say and keep saying that the Erika is one disaster too many .
We should be aware , for example , that Shell and British Petroleum refused to use the Erika to transport their oil .
Why , in these circumstances , is the liability of Total as charterer not recognised ?
Your proposals must also include making double hulls mandatory and enforcing observance , at last , of the ban on degassing at sea .
A European inspection body must be established which can monitor the condition of vessels effectively and efficiently .
In addition , it is also essential for the European Union to undertake to reform the IMO , as a matter of urgency .
What point is there in issuing restrictive directives if , once they are at sea , most vessels do just what they wish ?
Finally , a compassionate thought for all the volunteers , nature lovers and bird lovers , who spontaneously and generously are coming through to the aid of the oil-covered birds , organising rescue operation with the means available .
I can testify to this remarkable work .
You are no doubt aware that approximately 200 000 birds are going to die as a result of this oil slick , which is a major ecological disaster , practically unprecedented in scale .
In relation to this , you are no doubt also aware how difficult it is nowadays to preserve natural species as well as natural spaces .
And , on this subject , Commissioner , you did not mention how the Commission intends to contribute to the restoration of the natural environment and the natural habitats .
Once again , there will be no clearly defined party responsible .
In the meantime , it is nature that is taking the rap , as always .
Many volunteers from France and other European countries have expressed their solidarity by lending a hand to the victims in the field .
Our proposals are particularly concerned with the age of oil tankers .
Among those inspected and found to be in contravention of regulations last year , 15 were at least 20 years old and some were 30 and more .
This is no longer tolerable .
Next , we have flags of convenience .
According to the International Transport Federation , over 40 % of the ships wrecked in 1998 were sailing under flags of convenience , the symbol of profit and the exploitation of human beings at the expense of safety .
This is no longer tolerable .
Finally , there is the lack of transparency .
Everything is done to make the lines of responsibility , the identity of the owners and real decision-makers as impenetrable as possible .
This is no longer tolerable .
We must also ensure increased strictness both in issuing sea-worthiness certificates and in monitoring the condition and the maintenance of vessels .
Finally we must ensure that all the parties responsible for disasters contribute to repairing the damage caused .
I am thinking specifically of Total-Fina in the present instance .
This is an approach , Mr President , which the European Union can develop with regard to the International Maritime Organisation .
In so doing , it will have proved its usefulness to public opinion which , in this instance , is awaiting clear , tangible action .
In this emergency , in this ordeal , we have seen a magnificent display of solidarity : local solidarity , national solidarity , and intergovernmental solidarity .
Quite clearly , we are now paying the price for our lack of concern .
It is absolutely essential to put an end to this floodtide of irresponsibility , irresponsible charterers , untraceable shipowners and lenient certification companies .
So today we find ourselves in a state of utter confusion .
Admittedly , there is the International Oil Pollution Compensation Fund , IOPCF , but it waters down the issue of liability and sets its ceiling at a quite inadequate level , which must be reviewed .
The question of flags of convenience must be reviewed within the IMO .
It is up to the Members States and the Community to take the necessary initiatives to achieve this .
Let me remind you that the Erika was sailing under a flag of convenience , that of a state applying for membership of the European Union .
In addition , there are Community directives , but they are seldom applied , if at all , due to the insufficient number of national inspectors .
This omission must be remedied as a matter of urgency .
A directive on maritime safety has been in preparation for many years , but it is making very slow progress .
The Commission is displaying intolerable inertia and unacceptable shortcomings .
The date when the Commission is supposed to present its communication devoted to this key issue is put off time and again . It is now scheduled for July .
The terms of the regulations to be enforced must be particularly clear and strict .
I shall mention three issues that our group feels are priorities .
Firstly , the liability of owners of oil cargoes must be clearly established and the victims of pollution incidents must be able to claim on this liability unequivocally .
Secondly , the requirement of the double hull as a condition for access to Community waters must be enforced as soon as possible and cease to be put off indefinitely .
Thirdly , a strict age limit on vessels to be given access to Community waters must be established in the near future .
This could be of a maximum of 15 years of age .
Thus , the Erika was refused access to American waters .
If the European Community had done the same , a great disaster would have been avoided .
Let us ensure , Mr President , Commissioner , that this time we really do learn the lesson , even after the media hype and the shock of this House have died down .
Mr President , Torrey Canyon , Olympic Bravery , Haven , Amoco Cadiz , Gino , Tanio , so many names we remember with horror .
And now the Erika .
Whose turn is next ?
Twenty one years after Amoco Cadiz , this umpteenth oil slick , the seventh since 1967 , shows the irresponsibility of our successive rulers .
The Atlantic West Coast once again is paying a high price for their inability to react , for their capitulation to the multinationals .
And this is the result .
As an elected representative for the Loire-Atlantique region , unfortunately , I can testify to this .
There is nothing natural about these recurring disasters , they are the result of fate .
They are the result of human thoughtlessness .
What we have here is an ecological disaster .
Only the people cut off from the harsh reality of the grass roots could have any doubt about that .
The Erika disaster must be the last in the series .
First of all , we must shed some light on this shipwreck .
Why do we not appoint a parliamentary committee of inquiry or get Members of Parliament involved in the team of experts which has just been announced by the Commission ?
Next , as a matter of urgency , we muss pass legislation , firstly , regarding identification of the exact characteristics of goods transported .
In fact , according to the experts , the oil the Erika was carrying was supposed to sink to the bottom and should never have reached the coast .
We know what actually happened .
Next , reliable technical inspection must be established like the technical inspection compulsory in France for vehicles more than five years old .
We must regulate the use of flags of convenience , make double hulls mandatory for the transport of polluting or dangerous materials , work on technological innovations in order to be able to process or recover hydrocarbons at sea .
This would be a minimum requirement , I believe , on the dawn of the third millennium .
I have also tabled a resolution on this subject on behalf of the EDD Group .
Mr President , in the course of the last few years there has been a succession of serious tanker disasters world-wide and the countermeasures taken have either been ineffective or not worth mentioning .
It is particularly bad this time , not least because it has affected a major European State ; an incident which could happen again at any time .
We urgently require a directive if we are to reduce these risks .
The 15 clearly do not suffice .
These guarantee - making no claim to be exhaustive - a minimum of 3 things . No tanker or freighter fit only for the scrap heap must ever put into any harbour within the European Union again .
All those involved , including the transport agent , are responsible for any ensuing damage , and these individuals are to provide satisfactory assurances .
This is the only way of affording the victims the opportunity to make their claims for compensation .
However , we must aim higher in the long-term , let there be no mistake about that .
In other words , we need real cost-effectiveness for our entire energy supply system .
Mr President , may I start by saying that I would like to thank Commissioner Palacio very much for her clear , adequate and , at the same time , very firm response .
Many thanks for this .
This also means that , in any case , I have a great deal of respect for the briefing note which she sent on 10 January but also for the action points which she announced today .
The Erika disaster shows that when sound traffic and transport regulations are lacking at international and European level , nature and the environment come off second-best .
The damage suffered , also in ecological terms , cannot be expressed in money .
Hence also this joint debate involving transport and environmental management Members .
What I learned is that , actually , there is sufficient legislation in place but the problem is the lack of supervision .
Could I highlight a few points which have also been touched upon by the Commissioner ?
First of all , the port-state control , according to which 25 % of all ships require inspection .
I think that this 25 % should not only be enforced but that it should also be ensured that more inspections take place .
So this 25 % should be increased .
But this is not in place .
Mr President , I would welcome some action in this area .
Finally , as far as the technical requirements for ships are concerned , some Members have already mentioned just now that , since 1999 in the United States , ships should in any case be double-hulled .
In my opinion , we should look further into this point , and I also think that the Marpol Treaty , which comes into effect in 2001 , should be looked at very closely .
Mr President , we have already had this discussion so many times in the past .
We have achieved nothing so far , and we have been unable to reach agreement within the European Union .
Allow me to say first that what we are talking about is an environmental catastrophe , which also impacts on the economy and threatens livelihoods .
So what are we to do now ?
I have no intention of talking about past events ; rather I want to look to the future .
What are we to do now ?
I will tell you a few things we should do .
Of course , we need double-hulled vessels .
That goes without saying , but it is something that will only work through in the medium and long term .
So what do we need to happen immediately ?
We need technical testing of ships , that is obligatory technical testing every two years , and no ship to be operated without the accompanying certificate .
We need this at European level and internationally ; we need something like a TV , an organisation that undertakes technical testing of motor vehicles in Germany , which is compulsory every two years .
If you do not have a certificate then you are not allowed to operate the vehicle .
This is what we need for ships .
Thirdly , we need to carry out checks on these safety and insurance certificates in the ports , that is in every port of the European Union .
Any failure to produce these certificates must lead to the ship being laid up and prohibited from leaving the port , regardless of all the port charges .
We must reach agreement here , in all the European Union ' s ports , from Marseilles , through to Rotterdam , to Wilhelmshaven , Cuxhaven , and wherever ships drop anchor .
We also need the country whose flag the ship flies to bear liability .
We need to be sure that if need be , the country whose flag the ship is flying will accept liability .
This would be a marvellous exercise in supervision !
I can assure you that those countries awarding flags would then take great care to avoid having to accept liability .
Last but not least , we need a long memory , for the issue of legislation will crop up on the agenda more frequently in the near future .
Environmental standards will be a recurring theme .
I would not like to have someone coming and saying that these requirements will lead to job losses in the ports .
The unions will have something to say as will industry .
A long memory will serve us well , ladies and gentlemen .
I am looking at all those of you who have not exactly been at the forefront of the environmental movement .
Just you go home and say : " we have not concerned ourselves with standards to date " .
We need to have a long memory when it comes to the demands being made in the ports .
If we succeed in this then perhaps we will be better off in a few years ' time !
Mr President , Mrs Roth-Behrendt expressed very many of my own thoughts .
We have now obtained a first-rate enumeration of a variety of measures .
But how do we make use of the sense of crisis to which this ecological disaster has led ?
I would compare the situation with an earlier generation ' s introduction of the Plimsoll line , a marking which was introduced to prevent insurance fraud involving inferior vessels .
Where is the sense of crisis which generations before us had ?
I consider that what we should adopt is the form of certification that Mrs Roth-Behrendt speaks about , the identification in the form of green marks on tankers which certain harbours in Europe have brought up for discussion .
We must also critically examine the classification societies . I do not think that we can accept their procedures .
We need independent procedures and procedures involving public control .
Within the Commission , the one hand does not know what the other hand is doing .
It is not an acceptable procedure that measures to improve the environment , which are in keeping with the Commission ' s guidelines , cannot be taken because these are considered to constitute prohibited aid to shipyards .
I shall only add that it would be the least that Total could do to compensate for the direct and indirect damage caused by the oil slick .
How is it possible not to be outraged when a bank refuses to divulge the names of the Erika ' s owners on the grounds of professional confidentiality , without governments reacting ?
They accept the professional confidentiality of business and banks , even though this same confidentiality serves to conceal what are essentially criminal actions .
In these circumstances , even the best resolutions will remain little more than appeals to principle which are powerless to limit the great corporations ' capacity to cause damage .
Mr President , I am in favour of tightening up the legislation on port state control and on classification societies .
However , we must stick to the facts .
The ship Erika has been investigated four times in the course of the last two years .
The answer cannot lie in the number of investigations but rather in guaranteeing the rigour with which the controls are undertaken .
I have heard in the course of the discussions that have taken place in the last few weeks that the Member States do not have enough money to undertake the controls .
I cannot accept this .
If the Member States decide , in agreement with ourselves , that 25 % of ships are to be monitored on the basis of port state control , then they must also make the necessary personnel available .
This can only be detected if controls undertaken are more rigorous .
It should be our goal to ensure that port state controls are not superficial , but include materials testing .
Secondly , I also share the Commissioner ' s observations and would like to encourage her to continue down this path .
If it should become apparent that one or more classification companies have provided reports by way of favours then they should be struck off the list of authorised classification companies .
That is the only deterrent we have for preventing other classification companies from following suit .
Mrs Roth-Behrendt , we already have a TV ( organisation for safety testing ) for ships in the form of the classification companies .
There are reputable companies too .
Mr President , I welcome the statement from the Commissioner .
Having spent a lot of time at sea myself I am well aware of the sea 's power and destructive force , which make a proper design and maintenance of ships and boats essential .
I would like to express my sympathy with all those who are dealing with the consequences of the breaking up and sinking of the oil tanker Erika .
This has been an environmental disaster as well as a deplorable waste of resources .
This suggests to me that we should also look to the shipowners , to the flag state and the inspection authorities to shoulder their share of the responsibility .
However , before we rush in with a whole raft of new measures and new regulations , let us look carefully at the existing arrangements to be sure that they are being properly implemented .
Better to heed calls to amend and improve existing legislation than to embark on new proposals .
In that context I support calls to strengthen port state control to ensure full and effective inspection .
I support calls to ensure that the classification societies effectively monitor vessels ' structural conditions and are held accountable for their actions .
Calls for design improvements in hull construction , especially double-hulled vessels , are sensible but take time to be implemented throughout the fleet .
They are no substitute for rigorous regular inspection .
Mr President , I would like to thank my Socialist colleagues , mainly in the committees on transport and the environment , who have not forgotten that this disaster also affects the fishing industry .
These are the same areas , Commissioner , which already have to put up with the disrespectful activities of certain shipowners who empty the bilges of their vessels off their coasts , without any control whatsoever .
I come from a region , Galicia , which has suffered similar accidents in the past .
I therefore believe that it is necessary to act in two ways .
In this regard , the current process of negotiations on Malta ' s accession to the European Union must be used to ensure that this country rigorously monitors the oil tankers which sail under its flag .
On the other hand , prevention is essential .
Portugal is a country which has clearly demonstrated its sensitivity to issues relating to the sea .
Lastly , Mr President , I would like to highlight the work carried out by the volunteers and local authorities , who reminded me of old times when , as the then Mayoress , I lived through similar situations .
We must thank those who , while defenceless and lacking in resources , have battled courageously against the grave effects that this disaster has had on coastal regions , the marine ecosystem and European fishing stocks .
In addition , I should like to make a number of comments :
First , the Commission was right to concentrate its investigation on the liability of RINA , the Italian shipping register , because we need to know if Community law was applied .
That should be the starting point for our efforts .
Once we have done that , our reaction to the ecological disaster is fully justified .
Commissioner , I would also like to thank you for the speedy response of your department to this event and the measures which are being adopted and implemented .
I would like to comment on one of the measures to be taken , which was mentioned by the Commissioner and some of my colleagues .
I am referring to the double hull , which consists of two layers of steel , with containers divided into two tanks .
Commissioner , I believe that it is time to opt for the safest technically possible measures .
It is therefore not sufficient to merely reproduce the legislation in force in other countries .
I believe that we can and must improve the existing legislation in this regard .
Any cost-benefit analysis which truly takes into account all the harm occasioned to persons and the environment by these accidents , is bound to support this approach .
I think that given the dramatic circumstances , and as a matter of principle , it would be ill-advised and inappropriate to hold several votes .
Public opinion would find it hard to understand that we talk about a common judicial area , common airspace , a common rail area and a single market , but not a common maritime area .
I therefore believe that this is a project which must be opened up with the absolute will to see it followed through and followed through in concrete terms .
The Commissioner has suggested three main chapters which need to be drafted and brought into line with our legislation , in which we can set standards .
We sometimes regulate things which could , by and large , remain subsidiary .
In this area we must respond to public opinion .
This is extremely important and everyone should feel concerned because we are , when all is said and done , on the global scale merely a peninsula .
Therefore , once our legislation has been brought into line , we must follow this up immediately with appropriate law .
We must also put in place systematic controls and finally apply the ' polluter pays ' principle of responsibility which is , of course , supposed to be a deterrent .
I hope that all political groups will support us in our request for a public hearing .
The implications for the environment and for the flora and fauna of the European maritime environment are enormous .
The cause of the disaster must be sought in the weakened structure of the oil tanker .
So people are doubtful about the safety of ships which carry dangerous or polluting goods .
The International Maritime Organisation has issued international rules in this connection .
States can carry out port inspections .
In Europe , legislation is stricter and it is compulsory to inspect 25 % of the incoming vessels according to the port-state control directive .
However , it seems that none of the Member States meets this figure due to a lack of inspectors .
It is clear that there is no lack of legislation .
In my opinion , the Commissioner is quite right .
Where the scheme falters is in the enforcement of existing legislation .
But how are we now going to enforce this if there is indeed a lack of inspectors , esteemed European Commission ?
Can the Commission provide an assurance that Directive 93 / 75 concerning minimum requirements for vessels bound for or leaving Community ports and carrying dangerous or polluting goods will be implemented correctly in all Member States ?
Should its implementation not be more strictly monitored ?
In short , to give priority to older sub-standard ships over ships which meet all quality requirements .
The Erika was built at a Japanese shipyard and is single-hulled .
There are four more sister ships in service at present .
Construction of this type of ship was halted at the time because the risk of rusting was especially high .
Some of them also sail under the Maltese flag .
Are we waiting for the next accident to happen ?
Would sanctions not be appropriate , as the Commissioner stated , for the classification society ?
RINA is currently the talk of the town .
Malta is entering the accession negotiations .
In my opinion , the European Union can only accept Malta if it is guaranteed that the Maltese flag will sail without an accident in future .
Like so many others , I too wonder where the people responsible are .
Where are the shipowners and those who order the shipments when these disasters occur ?
Perhaps it might be time for us to begin to consider establishing a common environmental authority which could deal with this type of crime .
This is not the first time we have seen oil slicks , whether intentional or unintentional .
( The President cut the speaker off )
I would like to thank Mrs Grossette and her colleagues for bringing this motion before Parliament .
The environmental disaster of the sinking of the Erika off Brittany and the spillage of 10 000 tonnes of oil has been widely reported in the British media .
Although Britain and France have had their differences recently , I can assure you that there is considerable sympathy in my country for all those affected .
I salute these joint efforts to repair the damage .
This is clearly a problem for all EU coastlines which will require imaginative solutions .
There is currently little financial incentive for this when the insurance market picks up the tab .
Ultimately , the polluter must pay .
Moreover , although I am not opposed to shipowners registering their vessels in their country of choice , I believe there is a need for stricter application of international regulations .
I sincerely hope that , particularly during the French presidency later this year , the Commission and the Council will look carefully at all these options , and I heartily commend this resolution to Parliament .
The victims are waiting outside .
They want answers .
They do not want any more promises that we then fail to keep , or to see any efforts that we then fail to follow through .
The citizens are right to ask : " do our regions now count amongst those which are lost forever ? "
Who will provide us with new jobs ?
That is why I welcome Mrs Palacio ' s action plan with open arms .
It is equally important to note that " prevention is better than cure " .
But there is an art to that as well .
Deploying the German multipurpose ship " Neuwerk " - it is right outside my front door in Cuxhaven - entailed the swift provision of European neighbourly help .
We are particularly in the debt of those who undertook the difficult deployment of all their crew .
Valuable experiences were gained , and also the knowledge that we cannot master such environmental disasters using state-of-the-art technology alone .
We are therefore right to demand improved controls , sanctions and preventive measures .
I have been fighting for a European environmental coastguard service for almost ten years , here in Parliament .
The issue is as topical as it was before .
Furthermore , I will not withhold my support but will endeavour , alongside my fellow MEPs , to bring about improvements and logical solutions within the framework of European and international cooperation .
They are environmentally sensitive areas , but they are also sensitive from the point of view of social development and territorial equilibrium . And therefore we must take the utmost care to prevent the recurrence of a similar situation .
Mrs Roth-Behrendt said that nothing had ever been done .
In fact , I believe that things have been done by the Commission , but there is still more to do .
During these years , the emphasis has mainly been on the safety of passenger transport .
That is the reality .
In my opinion , we now have to make a significant and urgent effort to confront new problems , also deriving from American legislation , which emphasise the safety of the transport of dangerous goods in the maritime sector .
Flags of convenience are one problem , but are not the only one .
The Romanian flag is not a flag of convenience but , nevertheless , that country has an extremely high number of incidences at inspections ; more than the countries with flags of convenience .
Malta and Cyprus have asked to join the Community .
We must be demanding on this issue and we are negotiating to this end .
This will oblige us to reconsider the registers in the European Union , and to deal with the notorious problem , which will no doubt arise again , of the aim of a Community register .
I believe that this will be difficult but , in any event , we should carry out a review of the registers of the European Union countries .
As for the inspections , very much a key question , the first thing we have to consider is how the current legislation has worked , as Mr Hatzidakis has said .
We already have legislation .
According to the information which the Commission services have given me , this legislation is not adequately applied in many Member States due to a lack of personnel , means and inspectors .
Unfortunately , the 25 % often consists of flags which are expected to fulfil the requirements : in this way inspections are quicker and the work is carried out more easily .
Lastly , I would like to stress the issue of liability .
Not only in terms of maximum sums insured , which I believe should be similar to those in the United States .
We have set a figure of USD 180 million ; in the United States they are talking about USD 1 billion as a maximum ceiling for covering claims payments .
Unless we require that the owners of the cargo be held liable , we will never , in my opinion , resolve these problems .
I will end now . I will not expand further .
We will have the opportunity to do so on other occasions .
The political will of this Parliament is required - and I can see that I can count on this - as well as that of the Council of Ministers .
Thank you very much , Commissioner .
We have taken good note of your intentions .
I have received 8 motions for resolution , in accordance with Rule 37 ( 2 ) , to close the present Commission statement .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 p.m.
Storms in Europe
The next item is the Commission statement on the storms in Europe .
Mr Barnier has the floor on behalf of the Commission .
I think that you must have done so , because you have not mentioned it .
In fact , we all know that anyone who does not live within the perimeter of an Objective 2 region will find it all but impossible to obtain aid .
We should therefore put this situation right immediately .
You also know that this will not only be a short-term problem , but also a medium and long-term one .
Let me explain .
I was in the region of Lorraine at the time of this terrible storm which destroyed around 20 % of deciduous forest .
Indeed , for some ' forestry ' districts , which have lost 20 % of their trees , this represents a huge loss .
The towns concerned estimate that it will be spread over 40 years .
I think that consequently it will be extremely difficult indeed to compensate these rural towns through subsidies for losses in their financial revenues .
I think that this is something which we should continually bear in mind so that we do not lose sight of it in our various policies .
It is true that the problem of the forestry sector is an extremely complex one .
Indeed , you spoke of releasing funds for timber storage on the grounds that its price must not depreciate .
On the other hand , districts which have not been affected by the storms will also suffer , as the National Forestry Office has decided to freeze cuts in forestation for four years .
Those districts which have not suffered losses will therefore see their incomes decrease in any case .
I am telling you all of this to illustrate how complex the problem is , and I thank the Commission once again for extending their analysis of this situation as far as it could .
I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that , although there has indeed been an economic disaster , the real ecological catastrophes are still to come .
As you yourself said , Commissioner , these disasters or storms do not always have natural causes , and we think that these are the first signs of climate change .
We should therefore review our policies in order to take account of this fact .
What can the Members of the European Parliament do when faced with such a widespread disaster ?
Firstly , I would like to pay tribute to the mayors and local representatives who , on a daily basis , have had to reassure their constituents , organise volunteers and cooperate with the public services .
They have earned the confidence of their fellow-citizens .
I would also like to consider the paradoxical situation we have with regard to emergency aid .
We must also ask the Commission not to prevent local authorities and individual States from coming to the assistance of businesses affected by the disaster by applying Community competition rules too strictly .
I am thinking in particular here of fish and shellfish companies , which have been particularly badly hit .
As you said , Commissioner , we must ensure that there is compensation for the forced cessation in activity and that appeals can be made to FIFG for investments that have been totally wiped out .
Beyond this , I think that implementing MAGPs in a mechanical way will no longer be appropriate in the coastal regions that have been affected .
I therefore ask the Commission to stop doing so and , on the contrary , to help those who make their living from the sea to proceed to new investments , which they urgently need .
It seems quite natural that given such a disaster , national and European solidarity should go to the help of the devastated regions and those people who have been worst affected .
These are the terms of the written answer you gave Mr Martinez on 11 January 2000 .
I can show you a copy if you wish .
As a matter of urgency , therefore , we must restore , within the framework of a supplementary budget , the budget line which was allocated to us for natural disasters .
We must use the Berlin Summit aid appropriations and we must change the forestry policy implemented in most countries in the Union . That , however , is another problem altogether .
Mr President , Commissioner , Europe has undergone a tough ordeal at the start of this millennium .
I would first like to express my heartfelt condolences to the families in mourning as a result of the appalling weather conditions that devastated Europe in December .
These storms were an unprecedented ecological disaster for our forests .
I hope you do not mind if I make particular mention of the forests in my region , Lorraine , which have suffered enormous destruction .
I would like to congratulate the regional authorities , the volunteers and the public services on the fantastic way in which they rallied round but , unfortunately , their troubles are not yet over .
It is Europe 's duty to support them and thereby complement the efforts of the governments of Member States affected by the disaster .
I welcome Mr Barnier ' s statement and I also welcome the measures which the Commission has announced .
I am certainly not forgetting the economic dimension of this matter , as the timber industry has been devastated and a whole population is suffering the tragic effects of this .
The Community action programme for civil protection , established by a Council decision on 9 December , was launched on 1 January 2000 .
I ask Member States to grasp this opportunity . This programme must work at full capacity .
Our priority , as we wait for Community-level funds to be freed up , is for material aid in terms of partnership exchanges between Member States .
It is therefore a matter of urgency to improve forest roads , and to repair them as quickly as possible .
Lending forestry equipment and making personnel qualified in forestry management available are also covered by this measure .
Finally , it is essential that we slow down the logging of standing wood , in order to give priority to the purchase of windfalls .
These timber sales should be supported by strong media coverage in Member States .
This aid for gathering timber is , of course , only the first stage of an aid package , which will take the form of aid for reforestation and aid for the development of rural areas .
I ask the Commission to incorporate this into a study of how the situation should be managed now that the emergency is over .
This is a very sad opportunity for Europe to renew its forestry heritage in line with the role that this plays in wildlife and nature conservation and in our economies .
It is therefore a time for solidarity and cooperation between Member States in the face of an ecological and economic calamity .
If this solidarity is to have been worthwhile , it is up to Europe to propose priority actions for safeguarding the timber industry .
Current programmes must be accelerated .
For example , as they stand , the Commission ' s programmes will preclude us from meeting our obligations under Kyoto .
The trade in emissions rights is immoral to my mind and rather than solving the problem , it shelves it .
The entire taxation system must be given an environmental perspective in the medium term .
We must work more rapidly towards achieving the targets stipulated in the White Paper for renewable energy sources , as this would bring about a massive reduction in greenhouse gases .
The new Commission has not put forward nearly enough on this subject , and what it has put forward is woefully inadequate !
Commissioner , Mr President , Lothar was a quite ordinary name hitherto .
However , it has now achieved notoriety .
The wind triumphed over electricity pylons , roofs , traffic signs and , ultimately over the forest .
We have heard that in a short space of time the storm left us with approximately 120 million cubic metres of solid timber , and this is only an estimate .
I have listened to you very attentively Commissioner , and welcome with open arms the fact that you are intending to go and see for yourself the effects the catastrophe has had in France and in Germany .
If Mrs Schreyer is to visit the Black Forest sometime in the next few days , then any one farmer might ask her how the Commission and Europe would be able to help him as an individual .
What would you say to the forestry manager if his enterprise happened not to be in an Objective 2 region , or in a 5b region ?
All this is well-intentioned advice .
However , I come from an area in Northern Germany where the forestry industry predominates and I can tell you that we are already feeling the effects of the immense damage .
The thinning-out we need is not being attended to ; the forests are not being tended to the requisite degree .
What we need the Commission to do as a matter of urgency is to approve national aid , so as to avoid the competition issue being raised again at a later date .
Mr President , Commissioner , permit me , first of all , to make reference to two facts .
Firstly , at the beginning of 1999 , NATO , with the participation of most Member States of the European Union , flattened Kosovo with bombs in the name of freedom .
We are now endeavouring , at huge cost , to get the country back on its feet again and help its people , and rightly so .
Secondly , at the end of 1999 unbelievable storms raged bringing death and destruction to vast tracts of the EU .
The Commission in Brussels responded to the victims ' cries for help with a shrugging of shoulders .
" We do not have the wherewithal for that , " they said .
This is wrong !
And no one can comprehend this attitude .
Certainly those who fear for their livelihood are at a complete loss .
The citizens of the European Union expect solidarity , also from within this Community .
I say they have a right to solidarity .
Indeed the European Parliament must make it its business to uphold this right in hours of need .
I urge the Commission not to keep having to be asked and to provide assistance for the victims of the storms .
It knows the ins and outs of aid provision better than any local organisation or authority .
The European Union needs rules governing environmental liability as a matter of urgency .
We can no longer tolerate a situation where the general public has to foot the bill for damage that has often been caused by individuals involved in criminal machinations .
We must make the perpetrators liable for all manner of damage done to our environment .
Then , for example , people will think twice before transporting oil in a tanker that is about to fall apart .
When , in 1994 , over five years ago that is , I joined the Legal Affairs Committee in this Parliament , I became rapporteur for the environmental liability dossier .
To this day I am still awaiting an initiative from the Commission , which will actually enable me to start work .
It is a scandalous state of affairs that must be ended with all haste , and I hope that February does not see this dossier being postponed yet again !
Mr President , Commissioner , the storms that took place at the turn of the millennium should galvanise us into thinking about certain problems .
It has become clear that mankind continues to be unable to avoid natural disasters .
There have always been natural disasters and there always will be .
Of course , there is a need for solidarity here .
There is certainly a need for European civil protection , and the EU budget must also provide for a budget line covering natural disasters .
The extent of the damage caused on this occasion was determined by the population density , the type of infrastructure , and , of course , the many monocultures , if we are talking forests .
Of course , I am in favour of providing assistance where we can .
But when it comes to aid , we ought to bear in mind that perhaps in future , more emphasis should be placed on laying electricity and telephone cabling underground .
We must take account of smaller cycles and plant stable mixed woodland when undertaking reforestation , rather than monocultures .
The most important subject for discussion in this context is the climate .
To this day , we in Europe remain in the privileged position of having the Gulf Stream , and the Gulf Stream still does its stuff .
America and south-east Asia are having a much worse time of it as far as climate and storms go .
We are fortunate in having the Gulf Stream .
But in common with others , we too are having to endure the greenhouse effect .
This is partly the work of human hand , as difficult as it is to demonstrate climate change using calculations .
We must take more account of the guidelines produced at the Kyoto environmental conference .
We must reduce CO2 emissions , employ renewable energies , and generally make enquiries , in this connection , as to how the forests of Europe are faring .
Mr President , I think we should firstly express our sorrow for the victims .
This is an irreparable loss .
Secondly , we welcome the solidarity between the French departments and citizens , and the solidarity of other countries with France , which is the country worst affected .
As I have little time , Mr President , I would like to touch upon two elements of our resolution .
I believe that the first one was implicitly recognised by the Commissioner in his speech when he wondered whether these catastrophes are natural or not .
That is to say that experts are ever more convinced that climate change and human activities , in general terms , are linked to the increase seen in natural disasters in recent years .
In fact , over the last decade , the temperature has risen more than in the rest of the century .
Therefore Europe must be clearly committed to the Kyoto Protocol and make specific proposals .
Secondly , I was rapporteur for civil protection in Europe and I completely agree with the Commissioner ' s proposal to create a European civil protection body .
Furthermore , we should utilise an extraordinary budget line , since this is an extraordinarily catastrophic situation .
First of all , we would like to express sympathy with all the families and communities that lost members in this terrible tragedy .
It is really the loss of life that makes this particular disaster an extraordinary one by European standards .
It is regrettable that we do not have any instrument with which to give assistance in situations like this .
That is important .
The other thing we should remember is that we did have a budget line in the past . It was very small .
It was not able to do very much but it was repeatedly abused by Members of this House proposing action when the disasters were not even major .
Officials and ministers from Member States were coming to Brussels , whispering with the Commission and getting a few euros and making a political point by bringing aid back to their constituencies .
So there was not much sympathy for this budget line when it was abolished .
I think we should reinstate this budget line .
When we had the earthquake in Greece , which was a big disaster , the Community had no instrument with which to offer its sympathy or solidarity to the Greeks .
The same when the floods came in France and the same again now .
These are major disasters , we should have an instrument , we do not have it .
We should reinstate that instrument and we should make the rules tight so that only in situations where grave disasters occur will we call up this particular instrument .
We can save it from year to year and ensure that when something major happens we have an instrument to deal with it .
We did not have it so bad in Ireland this time although we have had many serious wind storms on the Atlantic .
We had floods in Ireland also and I want to express my sympathy with the people in Ireland who suffered from these .
Ladies and gentlemen , none of us must forget what has taken place .
It is true that there was a joint decision by the Council and Parliament seeking to discontinue emergency lines .
It is nevertheless the case that not a penny more than what was allocated before the storm will now be freed up to demonstrate practical , active solidarity .
It is nothing more than the States playing at taking from Peter in order to give to Paul .
I would like to tell Commissioner Barnier that in me he has an active ally for this idea which strikes me as noble and truly European in spirit .
Mr President , Commissioner , when we compare the frequency with which storms occur in other parts of the world with our own situation , we see that Europe gets off relatively lightly .
Nevertheless , the storms that took place in the last week of December showed us what the consequences can be and that there are major problems in store for us .
Anyone travelling to Strasbourg by car or by rail would have been able to see for themselves that storms raged in Alsace as well .
Each and every one of us knows that any other region of Europe could meet with just such a fate tomorrow .
What we need to do now is to deal with the fallen timber as swiftly as possible .
For it is common knowledge that we could have an even greater disaster on our hands if the fallen timber were to be left in the forests too long .
For instance , it should be pointed out that fallen timber provides the best breeding ground for the bark beetle ' s larvae , and we are not yet in a position to assess the repercussions this will have .
That is why it is absolutely essential to deal with the fallen timber before the warmer weather arrives .
Decades will have gone by before we are able to determine the true extent of the damage sustained by the forestry industry .
For we all know how long it takes a tree to grow .
The calculations are in decades rather than years .
I am therefore very proud to say that the skilled Austrian forestry workers are also prepared .....
( The President cut the speaker off )
Mr President , I extend our deepest sympathy to all of those who were affected by the storms .
Sometimes within the Community we do not actually have an awareness of what is happening in other countries .
We had very little coverage in Ireland of the tanker that sank .
I was asked to highlight the result of the storms in Ireland .
We had high winds and unprecedented , prolonged rainfall which , adding to existing difficulties , resulted in thousands of acres being submerged , sometimes , in up to 15 feet of water .
We experienced the human misery of flooded homes and farms , no sanitation , no drinking water and the environmental disasters of E.coli-infected water .
I talked with farmers whose ewes were aborting their lambs due to drinking the infected water .
Natural habitats were destroyed .
So I ask that Ireland be remembered in this particular case .
I thank the Commissioner and support him very much in his European protection force .
Mr President , Commissioner , I second all those who expressed their solidarity with the storm victims .
I would just like to point again to the impact on the forestry industry throughout Europe .
Unfortunately , we can expect there to be repeat performances of this kind of major disaster in the future .
As has already been mentioned here , there are indications - no proof , but clear indications - that the increase in storms world-wide has to do with the climate catastrophe .
I have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to Rule 37 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure .
That concludes the debate .
The vote will be taken at noon on Thursday .
Food safety
The next item is the communication on food safety and a statement by the Commission .
At my hearing last September , I promised speedy delivery of this White Paper .
I am happy that we have been able to deliver so quickly .
The White Paper represents three to four months of intensive work since the new Commission was appointed last September .
It takes on board the extensive consultations of the past couple of years since the Commission 's Green Paper on food law was published .
Equally it reflects our experiences of recent food alerts in such areas as dioxin and sludge , as well as the BSE crisis .
The White Paper also reflects the concerns of this Parliament which you have outlined to both President Prodi and myself on the numerous occasions we have debated food safety in this House since the Commission was appointed .
I do not need to remind you that consumer confidence in Europe 's food safety regime has been badly affected by the crises and alerts of recent years and months .
The Commission is fully committed to restoring that confidence by putting in place the most up-to-date and effective food safety regime in the world .
When I launched the White Paper last week I said that the shopping trolley is one of the most potent weapons on the face of the earth .
The most discerning decisions are made by the consumers of Europe .
If their confidence is damaged this is reflected in shopping decisions .
This in turn has a dramatic effect on farmers , producers and industry generally .
In an industry worth some EUR 600 billion annually , even a slight dip in confidence levels can have significant effects .
Between the agro-food sector and the farming sector there are over 10 million employees .
High levels of confidence are necessary to boost job numbers and competitiveness .
In saying all of this , I would like to make it clear that Europe nevertheless has one of the best food industries in the world and also one of the safest food control systems .
The challenge is to make the system the very best .
The overall objective therefore of the White Paper on food safety is to put in place the necessary legislation and structures that will guarantee the highest possible level of health protection for consumers arising from the consumption of food .
We are setting out a challenging and ambitious agenda for change .
The Commission will need the full support of Parliament if we are to achieve our ambitions on schedule .
We will also need the fullest support from the Council and other key stakeholders .
The White Paper on food safety outlines a comprehensive range of actions needed to complement and modernise existing EU food legislation . All of these measures are designed to make it more coherent , understandable and flexible .
We want to promote better enforcement of that legislation and to provide greater transparency to consumers .
The detailed action plan on food safety in the White Paper sets a precise timetable for action over the next three years .
Over 80 measures are envisaged .
Our objective is to put in place a coherent and up-to-date body of food law by the end of 2002 .
We are also envisaging the establishment of a European food authority by 2002 as an essential complement to the new food safety regime .
This idea will be the focus of much scrutiny and debate .
It has already attracted much comment , including reactions from Members of Parliament .
The chapter of the White Paper devoted to the establishment of a European food authority is clearly designed to elicit views and comments . We are seeking views by the end of April on what we envisage .
I will return to this process of consultation in a few moments .
The Commission believes that major structural change is required in our system of food safety to ensure the twin objectives of assuring the highest standard of food safety and restoring consumer confidence .
Why should a European food authority be an essential part of that structure of change ?
The first key concern is independence .
Key stakeholders , including consumers , are seeking a system that is independent and perceived to be independent of all vested interests .
We must also ensure excellence and transparency .
We have made a lot of progress over the past couple of years since the reformed system of scientific advice was adopted as a consequence of the BSE crisis .
However , the Commission believes that we must go further .
We must create a permanent and truly independent , excellent and transparent system of risk assessment .
The key task of the authority will be risk assessment in the area of food safety .
We envisage that the work of the existing five Scientific Committees devoted to food safety will be transferred to the authority .
They may not be transferred in their present form or structure - this is an issue on which we will elicit views before making our definitive proposals on the authority 's establishment .
However , if we were merely to propose a simple moving of deckchairs , this would clearly not be enough .
As the White Paper makes clear , the new authority must be a value-added structure .
I am of the view that the existing system of scientific advice needs to be strengthened .
Within the authority I envisage much stronger scientific and other support for the independent scientists .
This proactive approach should become the hallmark of the authority .
To be proactive the White Paper identifies a number of new areas that would be embraced by the authority .
These include a comprehensive information gathering and surveillance function , the coordination of scientific information in the EU , and building up strong networks with food safety agencies and bodies in Member States .
As part of its remit we also envisage the authority operating an enhanced rapid alert system for food and feed concerns .
The Commission has decided that it is neither appropriate nor feasible to devolve risk management power to the authority .
We believe that decisions in the risk management area should properly remain the preserve of the Commission , Parliament and Council .
I make no apology for this approach ; I firmly believe that it is the correct one .
Certainly there are those who would argue that we should give law-making powers to such an authority .
I do not accept those views and reject them with some degree of passion .
It was only last year that the Treaty was amended to give Parliament a much greater role in the legislative process .
To give such a role to an authority at this stage would be , in my view , a retrograde step and represent a dilution of democratic accountability .
I will be very interested to hear the views of Parliament itself in relation to this matter .
There are also those who argue that the Commission could effectively ignore the advice of the new authority .
I also reject this line of argument . How could a Commissioner for Health and Consumer Protection reject or ignore well-founded independent scientific advice in relation to food safety ?
Would this be in the interests of Europe 's citizens ?
In my view , most definitely not unless such rejection of the scientific arguments were soundly based , rationally argued and fully justified .
It seems difficult to envisage such a situation evolving .
I can assure you here today that the Commission , in exercising its risk management functions , will fully take account of the scientific advice of the authority .
I have already said that the authority will be charged with developing networks with national food safety agencies and bodies in the Member States .
This is a major task .
We must develop greater certainty in the science that underpins food safety in the European Union .
The authority must become the authoritative source of scientific advice and information on food safety issues .
This situation will not come about by the very creation of the authority but will evolve over time as confidence is gained in the authority itself .
I do not believe we can be prescriptive in the area of science and advice based on science .
However , with the evolution of dynamic networks with national scientific bodies and agencies , the authority will become pre-eminent on the European stage .
I am also anxious to hear the views of Parliament in this regard .
The White Paper also contains very important proposals in respect of controls .
This is a hugely important component of the system of checks and balances to ensure that Member States and operators are complying with Community legislation .
I want to see a genuine internal market operating in the control arena .
In this context we are also proposing to strengthen significantly the control function carried out by the food and veterinary office located in Dublin .
This revised Community framework would have three core elements : operational criteria set up at Community level , Community control guidelines , and enhanced administrative cooperation in the development and operation of control .
These proposals must be seen as part of our mission to have the highest food safety standards in the world , boost consumer confidence and increase markets for farmers and producers in the Union .
It sets out over 80 separate actions that are envisaged over the period ahead and intends to close identified loopholes in current legislation .
The new legal framework will cover animal feed , animal health and welfare , hygiene , contaminants and residues , novel food , additives , flavourings , packaging and irradiation .
As regards the precautionary principle , I might add that the Commission is currently finalising a communication which I expect to be adopted very soon .
However , having regard to my contacts with the presidents of the relevant committees , I recognise that this was not feasible .
But I know too that we will have many further opportunities in the coming months to consider the White Paper 's proposals on the authority .
We now have a number of months to have the necessary debate on the Commission 's ideas on the White Paper on the establishment of a European food authority .
Parliament will have a key part to play in this debate . Parliament played a crucial role in Europe 's response to the BSE crisis .
It has especially active since then in bringing citizens ' concerns about food safety issues to the fore .
I expect that Parliament 's contribution to the debate on the authority can be as incisive and constructive .
While we have a number of months to the end of April to debate the issue and garner our views , I recognise fully that this is also a very tight timeframe .
I would therefore ask Parliament to make appropriate arrangements to ensure that its views can be formulated as quickly as possible .
The European food authority will be a key ingredient in the EU 's food safety regime in the years ahead .
It is essential that we get the mix right .
Mr President , I thank the Commissioner for his statement .
I would like to welcome the division of labour that you have made and that food management will remain the responsibility of the European institutions , including the Commission and Parliament .
That is very much the right approach .
But there is one word that I have not heard you mention here tonight . I hope that we can thrash this out .
We need a body of food law , as you have said , and we need to agree this together .
It is very important that we include liability in that process .
That is the one word I am talking about .
The problem so far is that taxpayers paid when something went wrong .
That cannot continue .
When we have a crisis we have to clearly identify in advance that if there is a problem , those responsible are liable .
Mr President , it is a very worthwhile White Paper and you will not hear a word from me on the food safety authority .
My questions relate to the positive list for animal feed .
You are unclear about this in your White Paper .
What is your schedule , how long will it take you to produce a positive list ?
When will the same requirements be applied to animal feed and the production thereof as apply to the production of food and the monitoring thereof ?
The final part of my question is as follows : when will BSE testing be binding in all Member States ?
That is another point , i.e. the question of obligation , which you were somewhat unclear on in your White Paper .
Thank you , Commissioner , for your statement .
I think the lines that you have set up regarding the Food Safety Authority are a recognition of reality .
The Member States would not accept a regulatory agency , so there is not very much point in your proposing one .
Some sectors of the food industry clearly need better regulation and that is clear on the issue of feed and animal feedingstuffs .
Secondly , will this not compound the problem of over-regulation from Brussels and under-implementation in the Member States ? We look forward to a fruitful dialogue with you on this .
President , first of all I would like to thank Mrs Ahern , Mrs Roth-Behrendt and Mrs Jackson for their words of support in relation to the White Paper .
I find that encouraging and I look forward to further discussions with them and other Members of Parliament in relation to the issues that they raised .
Mrs Ahern raised the issue of liability .
That of course is not specifically addressed in the White Paper except for the reference to the fact that we will be putting in place provisions - and there are already some - relating to the issue of traceability .
Once that is done , issues such as liability can be addressed .
I have not given full and detailed consideration to issues relating to and surrounding questions of liability despite my background , but it seems to me that there may very well be subsidiarity issues involved .
But I have taken on board your suggestion and I will give it further consideration .
Mrs Roth-Behrendt asked me about establishing a positive list .
That is one of the issues that we address in the annex to the legislation , and the intention is to establish a positive list for feed material .
At the moment the list is , as I say , a negative list and it is added to as required .
The establishment of the positive list is one of the issues set out in the annex with a date attached to it , 2002 in fact .
The rapid alert system for feed is something that we have identified as a gap in the legislation .
Rapid alert is there for food but not for feed .
This is unfortunate and it is wrong , and we believe that it is important to identify it and to establish legislation to close that gap and that will be done .
I hope that the next time you ask me the question , I will be in a position to give you more detailed information .
Mrs Jackson has focused on the fact that there are 24 new and 20 amending pieces of legislation and asks whether this compounds over-regulation .
I should say that the pieces of legislation that we have identified are intended to close gaps in existing legislation .
There is a reference to applicant states and that is something that we have in mind .
Standards of food safety and indeed other areas of safety are obviously of critical importance in relation to enlargement and this is a matter that I have drawn to the attention of Mr Verheugen .
Of course , we are not in a position to dictate anything in terms of content , but I would insist on Parliament retaining the rights accorded it under Maastricht and Amsterdam , and even extending them .
I also welcome the White Paper .
But do you envisage that the Food Safety Agency will have enough teeth to prevent something like the beef war that we have had and France 's refusal to lift the ban ?
You mentioned the Commission being able to withhold grants and subsidies from countries who are acting in the way that France is acting .
Would you also propose that the Commission could give interim payments for instance , similar to the one that the British farmers are asking for at the moment ?
For example , the work of the EU unit located in Dublin has shown that physical distance is no barrier these days to communication and having an effective influence on matters .
All this will be managed with the help of modern technology in any area of the European Union .
I would ask you on what you base your ideas for a location ?
In addition to that , the food safety authority will have a board .
You will notice in the White Paper that we have not been specific about the makeup of that board .
This is an issue which I expect will be discussed between Parliament and the Commission over the next few weeks and months .
I envisage that the board 's membership will be made up from stakeholders or representatives of stakeholders .
Its function will have to be set out in detail in the proposal I will bring to the Commission in September .
We have not done that yet but it will be done in September .
I do not expect that the board will have any function in directing the scientists how to do their work .
That would erode the independence of the scientific advice .
But it would have an overall remit , particularly , for instance , in requesting the authority to investigate particular areas requiring research .
Mr Florenz asks whether Parliament will have a say in that .
That is an issue for consideration and discussion .
There may be a number of views on that .
Some may take the view that it would be inappropriate for Parliament or Members of Parliament - or indeed Parliament nominees - to be members of the board .
Others may take the view that it would be a valuable exercise if Parliament , through nominees or even MEPs themselves , were able to have an opportunity to discuss what issues should be investigated .
It is an issue for consideration but it has not been ruled out .
Mr Florenz also raised the question of anonymity .
I am happy that he raised it because it is particularly important for this authority to have a high profile .
It must be visible . It must be known .
Consumers in the European Union must know of the existence of the food authority .
They will be aware that they have heard from the authority before under other circumstances and hopefully will have some bedrock of confidence already built up in the pronouncements from the authority .
It is fundamentally essential therefore that the authority is not anonymous .
It must be visible .
I will do everything I can to promote that high profile role for the authority .
Mrs Lynne asks whether the authority will have sufficient teeth .
I suspect that the question is focused on the issue of where the competence of the authority begins and ends and where the competence and authority of food safety agencies in Member States begin and end .
There would have to be an interaction at scientific level .
Quite clearly it is undesirable to have situations develop whereby scientists working for , or advising , the food safety authority at Community level may be in disagreement with some scientific opinion at Member State level .
That is an undesirable situation , we do not want that situation in the future .
There are a number of things that undermine consumer confidence - lack of information is one .
But information which includes a fundamental disagreement between scientists on core issues relating to food safety is also an issue of serious concern .
This situation can be achieved over a period of time .
You cannot legislate for consumer confidence .
It is something that is earned over a period of time .
However , the Commission will have the possibility of seeing that the opinions of the Authority on scientific matters are enforced by way of passing legislation which is the function of the Commission , Parliament and Council .
I realise that this is a somewhat time-consuming exercise but , nonetheless , the establishment of legislation arising out of the opinions of the Authority is - I believe - the way forward .
Any failure to comply with legislation is a matter that can be dealt with in the courts in the normal way .
One of the issues that we may have to address over time is the question of the speed of response in such circumstance .
I hope to see if something can be put in place to get us a faster response from the court process .
In relation to grants and subsidies : yes , consideration has been given to that issue .
It will require the advice of legal services and that will be sought , particularly bearing in mind that it may provide a speedy response to a failure to comply with Community law pending a court ruling .
In relation to Mrs Lynne 's question on interim payments : that is a matter that might very well be addressed by Parliament as it relates to budget issues .
Mrs Myller then asked me about the location of the Authority .
No decision has been taken in relation to that other than to say that it is more likely that the Authority will be located centrally rather than on the periphery .
I recognise that the FEO is located in Dublin and , although I come from that part of the world myself , I have to accept that it is not the centre of Europe !
But the FVO is in quite a different situation from the Food Safety Authority .
The FVO is made up of independent scientists and vets and so on who travel from some location where there is an airport - quite clearly we have an airport in Dublin .
The Food Safety Authority 's situation is quite different .
It has to be close to the Commission because of the need for interaction between the scientists involved in the Food Safety Authority and those of us who are involved in the initiation of legislation .
Equally , the scientists will wish to have some input into the legal process or the policy-making process or the law-drafting process , to ensure that the legislation meets the ills that they have identified .
It seems to me desirable for an authority of this type to be centrally located .
That is my judgement at the moment .
Colleagues , I am in a very difficult position because I cannot change the agenda .
I would suggest to you to take this matter up with your political groups and raise it in the Conference of Presidents .
If you feel that these sessions after a Commission statement are important , I would suggest that we require more time than the half-hour that is allocated to them .
On this occasion we have had six minutes of questions from the floor of the House and we have had 29 minutes of response by the Commissioner , and his statement .
As you can see , half-an-hour is not really anything like enough time for such a session .
I hope you might discuss this in your political groups so that we can have a better structured session with the Commission on such future occasions .
That concludes the debate .
Question Time ( Commission )
The next item is Question Time ( B5-0003 / 2000 ) .
We will examine questions to the Commission .
We will dedicate approximately one hour and fifteen minutes to Question Time .
We will cut back our time a little because the interpreters are working today in continuous session .
Mr Purvis has the floor for a procedural motion .
That is the agenda and I think that we should stick to the agenda .
The fact is that the agenda said that we would begin at 5.30 p.m. , and you can see the clock .
I hope that we do not go on into the evening session in any event .
First Part
Question No 28 by ( H-0781 / 99 ) :
Mr Verheugen has the floor on behalf of the Commission .
The Commission is following with interest the planned construction of a nuclear power plant in Akkuyu , Turkey and recognises the importance of ensuring that the construction of the new plant follows the highest internationally accepted nuclear safety standards .
According to our information , the decision on the selection of a bidder has not been taken yet .
The Commission does not have a mandate to impose any limits on decisions taken by any country in terms of energy production , including the nuclear option .
In particular , the Commission is aware of the public concerns about the recorded seismic activity in the area of the Ecemis fault line located in the vicinity of the proposed plant site .
Large design margins are being provided in order to ensure safe operation of the plant according to the environmental conditions of the site .
The Commission is also aware of concern about the possible intention of using the plant to produce weapons-grade material .
It acknowledges the fact that Turkey has signed and ratified the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and has subsequently concluded a comprehensive safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency .
Thank you for your reply .
I should like to make the following points : Turkey is now a candidate country .
This plan is designed to increase its energy potential by 2 % .
At the same time , it also wishes to acquire Cadou type reactors from Canada , which we now know have already been used for nuclear weapons in Pakistan and India .
In this sense , there is therefore a serious risk that some idiot will decide that the new geopolitical balance of power in the Caucasus calls for a nearby country with weapons grade nuclear technology .
So much for the political aspect .
Now to the technical aspect .
The safety factor in this type of project , and I am speaking as an engineer , has nothing to do with increasing safety levels in relation to the risk of collapse by a factor of ten or twenty .
In cases such as this , where there is uncertainty , simulators are used .
However , we cannot used simulators in cases relating to nuclear energy .
In this sense , all high seismic risk areas must be excluded a priori for nuclear installations such as this .
A couple of weeks ago we had a debate in Parliament on the nuclear safety issue with special regard to the candidate countries .
I have explained the position of the Commission .
You have to accept the fact that there is no acquis communautaire on nuclear safety .
So what we did was use political means to convince some candidate countries that we have to have decommissioning plans for some reactors that are considered not to be upgradable .
In the case of Turkey it is different .
The plant is not yet there .
I have already said that Turkey is part of the NPT and of the Convention on Nuclear Safety .
If we see in the development of that nuclear power plant that there are concerns about safety we will discuss it with Turkey .
I think it is the right of a Member of Parliament to raise his own concerns and fears .
I do not have these concerns .
Question No 29 by ( H-0786 / 99 ) :
Subject : Depleted uranium weapons Has the Commission conducted any studies of the potential effects upon EU states of transboundary pollution arising from the use of depleted uranium weapons in the Kosovan conflict ?
If not , why not ?
Mrs Wallstrm has the floor on behalf of the Commission .
Thank you , Mr Bowe , for your question .
The European Commission has monitored the environmental effects of the conflict from the beginning of the NATO action .
As early as last June the Commission financed a first study .
It was carried out by the regional environment centre for central and eastern Europe and concluded that there had been no large-scale ecological catastrophe .
None of the subsequent evidence or analysis has overturned that original assessment .
The Commission has also been closely associated with the production of the recent report published by the United Nations environment programme - Balkan Task Force .
This is the most detailed and comprehensive report to date on the environmental effects of the Kosovo conflict and I recommend it to those who have not yet studied it .
The use of depleted uranium weapons was one of the many issues considered and this report is now widely available also on the Net .
The Balkan Task Force was hampered by the fact that little or no information was available on the actual use of these weapons during the conflict .
No indications of contamination were found in Kosovo during the BTF fact-finding mission .
However , this does not exclude the possibility that areas in Kosovo are contaminated by depleted uranium .
From a desk assessment coupled with a fact-finding mission the report concludes that the risks , if any , are limited to an area around the target .
Future actions will take place within the stability pact for south-eastern Europe .
A special regional environmental reconstruction plan is also being developed . It will form the framework for emergency assistance for combating war damage if such action should be needed .
First of all , Mr President , can I thank the Commissioner for that very useful response .
Clearly the Commission has given some consideration to this problem and I am pleased that these reports which have been produced so far have looked carefully at the issue .
But I would like to point out that the concern with depleted uranium weapons is about the way in which they are used .
This uranium becomes air-borne , is inhaled and could now be effectively carried by members of the population in Kosovo with rather more long-term effects than it has been possible to establish so far .
This seems to be the pattern of events that has emerged after the use of depleted uranium weapons in the Gulf war .
How long will you continue to monitor the effects of these weapons ?
Thank you , Mr Bowe , for that question .
We have to state again that there is still no confirmation that depleted uranium was used in the conflict and no depleted uranium has been detected in the clean-up of Kosovo .
But those symptoms and those problems that you mentioned could be there and that could be the effect of the use of depleted uranium .
That is also mentioned in the report .
No transboundary effects have been detected and most of the weapons will have been used on the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia .
The problem is that the current political isolation of the country means that access to this area is restricted .
A big responsibility rests with the United Nations because they are addressed with this report , so they have to take responsibility .
It also has a long-term effect on thinking when it comes to the use of these sorts of weapons .
Mr President , Commissioner , in a few months ' time , hundreds of thousands of holidaymakers will again head for the Adriatic Coast to spend their summer holiday .
We know from media reports that bombs and weapons were dumped just off the coast .
Are you able to confirm that holidaymakers will be able to swim safely in the Adriatic this summer , and are there any measures in the pipeline for ascertaining what the dangers might be in this respect ?
I wish I could give guarantees for many things but unfortunately I am not able to .
We make our judgements from reports like this and the missions we send to check on things like this .
That is what we rely on when we advise people on what to do .
What we have seen is that war affects the environment in the long term and is dangerous .
In the environmental field we have just passed a directive on marine pollution .
That also includes bullets and weapons and so on and it is an early warning system .
Unfortunately we are not able to give guarantees and we can only continue to monitor and try to do the clean-up exercise .
I cannot answer that question .
When it comes to medical checks and so on , I do not have all the information needed to give a proper answer .
What we know from the environmental side is what I have already mentioned , that there is now an environmental reconstruction plan , but when it comes to medical check-ups I do not have the information about that .
Of course I can go back and see whether we can find the necessary information .
Question No 30 by ( H-0793 / 99 ) :
Subject : Appointment of a European Union envoy for Tibet In 1998 the Tibetan Government in exile received over 4000 Tibetans who escaped over the Himalayan mountains seeking freedom and refuge at risk of life and limb .
Many of the refugees had been severely frost-bitten and many had died along the way .
When will the Commission appoint a Special Envoy for Tibet ?
Mr Patten has the floor on behalf of the Commission .
The concerns expressed by the European Parliament about Tibet are widely shared .
I have long believed in the need to set out our views on human rights issues , including Tibet , firmly and candidly to the Chinese authorities .
The European Union did that at the European Union  China Summit in Peking last month where we pressed the Chinese on a number of human rights issues , including Tibet .
We again urged the Chinese to begin a dialogue with the Dalai Lama .
I urge the Chinese again to do so .
We will continue to raise Tibet with the Chinese authorities .
The appointment of an EU special envoy for Tibet would be primarily a matter for the Council to decide and Parliament might care to take the issue up directly with them .
But for my part , I am not sure that it would add much practical value to our efforts .
It would be unlikely to have much impact on the Chinese authorities and we already have effective channels of communication with the Tibetan community in exile .
I am also keen to guard against an exponential growth in the number of special envoys , however worthy the cause .
Imprisonment , torture , the mutilation of young women and so on and so forth , are definitely issues that we could discuss ad infinitum .
If we cut down here and say that the Council now shares responsibility for this , then I fear that these human rights issues will not be given the attention they deserve .
Let me make clear to the honourable Member what the position is .
I stated nothing but the truth when I said that the appointment of special envoys was a matter for the Council .
As it happens , we deal with the budgetary consequences , the Council makes the appointment .
Some may think that the budgetary point should be looked at in due course .
Putting that on one side , because that is the situation , it does not mean that we do not have a view and a competence in human rights issues .
I have long believed that we should all recognise that countries where it is best to do business are countries that treat their own citizens most decently - everywhere in the world .
I repeat that we have made our position known to the Chinese on Tibet .
Mr President , I would like to start my additional question with the Tibetan greeting , which betokens peace and happiness .
The question before us now is what can the Commission do to provide more practical support for his Holiness , the Dalai Lama ' s , proposal for a peaceful solution to the Tibet affair ?
I would point out that doing nothing will be the death of Tibetan culture and will mean the end of the Tibetan people .
I have much sympathy with what the honourable Member has said about cultural heritage and about the Buddhist tradition .
Like the honourable Member I have read the autobiography of the Dalai Lama .
It is an extremely moving account , not just of his responsibilities in and towards Tibet but also of his spiritual views as well .
The Commission , like others , has urged dialogue .
The Dalai Lama has made it clear that peaceful dialogue is what he wishes .
I wish that the Chinese authorities had responded consistently and positively to that overture from the Dalai Lama .
At or around the time of President Clinton 's visit to China , the President of the People 's Republic of China gave the impression that dialogue was on the agenda .
Question No 31 by ( H-0795 / 99 ) :
Are these reports accurate ?
What is the reason for the Commission ? s acting in this way , and how can it explain the resultant discrepancy between its words and its actions on the reform of EU administration ?
Mr Patten has the floor on behalf of the Commission .
The newspaper reports that the honourable Member made reference to seem to me to be misleading and inaccurate .
In November 1999 the Commission approved at first reading a code of good administrative behaviour to be incorporated into its Rules of Procedure .
At the moment the Commission is consulting its staff representatives on the document , a process which will be finalised in the forthcoming weeks .
The Commission will then adopt the code at second reading .
It should be noted that the new Commission gave an immediate follow-up to the European Ombudsman decision of 28 July 1999 in his own-initiative inquiry related to the code .
The Commission would like to stress in particular that , in the drafting of the code , it has taken on board all the draft recommendations of the European Ombudsman .
The code will be a document exclusively dealing with the relations of the Commission 's administration with the public .
It will be adopted through a legally-binding Commission decision to be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities .
The document has been drawn up taking full account of the provisions contained in the draft prepared by the European Ombudsman 's office .
According to the related provisions in the Treaties the responsible legislator for establishing its Rules of Procedure is the Commission itself .
However , it goes without saying that the Commission adheres to the principle of regular political dialogue with the European Parliament on all aspects of administrative reform .
Mr President , I would like to thank the Commissioner .
However , I would still like to ask when this code will finally come into force , bearing in mind that it has been on the agenda since 1997 .
The newspaper reports were misleading .
I do not think there is any difference between us and the Ombudsman .
There is a question about the legislative base on which we have taken the best advice and I think we are soundly placed on that .
I want to repeat that honourable Members , like the honourable Member who asked the question , who take a particular interest in this issue , will want to have a dialogue about it .
It is extremely important and I recognise the concern of the honourable Member .
I want to thank the Commission for what I perceive as a very positive answer .
Is it true that the contents of all parts of the proposal will be approved ?
Let me read what it says in my brief - and as it is in my brief it must be true !
" I would like to stress again that the Commission has accepted all the Ombudsman 's recommendations contained in his draft recommendations of July 1999 " .
Both documents , that is the Commission 's document and the Ombudsman 's draft , cover largely the same ground .
The only substantial question that has arisen is the legislative basis .
I can go into that in detail if the honourable Member would like but there is no doubt that we are on all fours with the Ombudsman on this important issue .
We will be happy to incorporate Mr Patten ' s notes into the bibliography , as another bedside book for the Members to bear in mind .
As the author is not present , Question No 32 lapses .
I apologise to Mr Vitorino for this parliamentary discourtesy . I am sorry .
According to the Rules of Procedure , you are not required to reply .
I wish you a good evening .
Second Part
Questions to Mr Nielson , who is replaced by Mr Patten
Questions 33 and 34 of Questions to the Commission were intended for Mr Nielson .
Mr Nielson cannot be present today since he is in South Africa .
I must tell you that the Vice-President of the Commission , Mrs Loyola de Palacio , has sent me a kind letter giving me all sorts of explanations and informing me that Mr Patten will reply to the questions .
Question No 33 by ( H-0829 / 99 ) :
Subject : ' Mainstreaming ' in EU aid policy In 1995 the Council drew up guidelines for integrating the equal opportunities dimension ( ' mainstreaming ' ) into the full range of EU aid policy .
' Mainstreaming ' means taking account of equality between women and men as an integral part of all forms of development policy , strategy and measures .
To achieve that , the Council 's guidelines must be implemented in their entirety .
Current staff must receive compulsory training in equal opportunities and 1-2 days ' training in such issues should form an essential part of the Directorate-General for Development 's introductory courses for new staff .
Is the Commission prepared to take such measures ?
The training of staff moving to the delegations in the different regions is another entry point .
The training then would be automatically performed without being compulsory .
We also aim to include training in these issues in the basic training that our officials receive in project cycle management .
As far as possible , we want to see this sort of training automatically built into programmes at the outset , instead of having to be tackled separately and later .
My own view as a former development minister is that these issues should be mainstreamed themselves and tackled at the heart of training and not turned into a sort of optional add-on .
The quest for equality should permeate the work of the Directorate-General for Development at all levels . It is not to be brought in as a " sort of optional add-on " .
This must naturally lead to a reformulation of development goals and strategies , together with a transformation of institutions and processes so that both women ' s and men ' s priorities and needs are better reflected .
In addition , measures must be taken to combat differences on the grounds of gender .
Equality must permeate not only projects and programmes but also all overarching goals , action plans and strategies .
It would appear that we are in agreement about this .
However , responsibility for ensuring that due attention is given to equality lies with departmental and unit managers .
If the latter do not have the required professional competence , then nothing will happen and gender mainstreaming will no longer be a priority .
Extremely few members of the Directorate-General for Development , that is to say unit managers and more senior managers , have taken part in the gender courses that have been organised .
Only one manager has participated in gender training , and for half a day .
That is naturally unacceptable .
What is the Commission prepared to do to ensure that unit managers and more senior managers go through the necessary gender training ?
Gender has in fact been included in the compulsory introductory course for new employees , but then with only one to two hours devoted to it on each course .
This limited training element has , however , been removed from all introductory courses which have taken place in recent times .
As I point out in my question , one to two days , and not one to two hours , need to be devoted to the subject .
My question is this : is the Commission really prepared to comply with the adopted guidelines for gender mainstreaming at the Directorate-General for Development ?
Well I certainly take gender mainstreaming seriously and so does my colleague Commissioner Nielson .
And , since it should be essential , I would hope that everybody would make certain that they had adequate gender training .
That goes for everybody at whatever level of seniority .
It is not something which more senior officials can deem appropriate for their juniors but think that they are too grown-up or too senior to receive themselves .
So I sympathise very much with what the honourable Member has said .
I hope the approach that we are following both demonstrates practicality and the imperative of giving this the attention which it deserves .
Since 1991 , the Community has provided significant financial support to the New Independent States including the countries of central Asia .
The major part of European Union aid has been provided under the TACIS programme .
In 1998 and 1999 Kyrgyzstan , Kazakhstan , Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan received technical assistance of EUR 75 million .
This assistance has delivered benefits in all sectors , in particular agriculture , infrastructure development , the private economy and the strengthening of institutions .
Security considerations have prevented Tajikistan from benefiting fully from TACIS but a rehabilitation programme of EUR 7.2 million has been in place in 1998 and 1999 .
In addition to national programmes , the European Union has supported important regional actions in the energy , transport and environmental sectors .
Food security programmes in central Asia began in 1996 , following two previous years when the European Union provided food aid in kind .
These programmes have benefited Kyrgyzstan and to a more limited extent , Tajikistan .
Funding for NGO programmes in Tajikistan amounted to EUR 7.42 million in 1998 and 1999 .
Over the same period , Kyrgyzstan received EUR 17 million .
Since 1993 the Commission 's European Community Humanitarian Office , ECHO , has been active in supporting the most vulnerable groups and sectors in Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan .
In 1998 and 1999 EUR 3.8 million was granted to Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan received over EUR 35 million , mainly for food , medical supplies , water and sanitation .
Frequent monitoring and situation assessments have shown that European Union assistance is contributing to the stability of these countries and therefore the ongoing peace process .
Mr President , Commissioner , there is a risk of Central Asia and the Caspian Sea becoming the Balkans of the 21st Century .
That is why it is imperative to stabilise the two major states of Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan in particular .
We were able , at the Istanbul Summit a couple of weeks ago , to meet and have discussions with some of the Central Asian republics .
I am very anxious that we should strengthen our relationship with them .
I can send the honourable Member , if he would like , a detailed breakdown of exactly where we stand on the negotiation of partnership and cooperation agreements with each of the Central Asian republics .
Obviously everyone will hope that his prediction of what may happen in the future is on the gloomy side .
But I have no doubt at all that he is right to point to the strategic importance of Central Asia .
I have heard the honourable Member talk in the past about the Caucasus as well .
So the honourable Member 's remarks about the strategic importance of these regions are extremely well made .
We are contributing to programmes in the region which have some ecological impact .
Our food programmes are directly related to structural reforms in agriculture as well as poverty alleviation .
Those programmes themselves are intended to ensure that agriculture has a more soundly based position in those societies and does not consist simply of raping the land .
There is an ecological aspect which we should continue to give priority to .
We also take good note of the fact that the Member who has asked the question has applauded the Commissioner ' s answer .
This is not the usual state of affairs .
And furthermore the Commissioner has not quoted from his bibliography this time .
Thank you very much , Mr Patten , for your interventions today .
Question No 35 by ( H-0778 / 99 ) :
As far as Mr Papayannakis ' question is concerned , in the 1999 Action Plan for Employment , the Commission proposed certain recommendations for Greece with a view to improving the efficiency of the Action Plan for Employment .
The Greek Government introduced two specific programmes in 1999 as part of its employment policy : " Yes to Work " and " Back to Work " .
We do not yet have the final results of these programmes and cannot yet tell if the quantitative objectives were achieved .
The Commission will keep a close watch on the Greek Government in order to ensure that it honours the commitments which it has made .
Thank you , Commissioner for your reply .
You tell me that you , as the Commission , have made recommendations .
I understand and welcome that and I hope that the recommendations will be adhered to .
However , my question for a very long time has been this : what happened with previous policies ?
Did anyone find work ?
How many people found work ?
If you cannot tell us for this year , then last year and the year before .
What has been done about training ?
Is the purpose of the famous training centres to provide jobs for instructors or trainees ?
Do we have any figures ?
In other words , do we have ways of checking what is happening with this government policy in Greece ?
Greece has seen an increase in the employment rate and , as far as I can see , an increase in productivity .
The action which the Commission can take relates to the specific guidelines .
As you know , there are 22 guidelines on which each country is evaluated .
They concern access to training , the ratio of men to women with access to training , and special action for the long-term unemployed .
The Commission will endeavour , for all these specific guidelines , to quantify the data and to obtain specific information based on the implementation of the new Community framework for 2000 to 2006 .
Question No 36 by ( H-0782 / 99 ) :
The Danish pension scheme , the Efterln , only allows people resident in Denmark and people who have completed the required period of employment in Denmark to retire .
Some workers have complained to the European Commission because they do not have the right to retire .
The Danish authorities do not consider that they are obliged under Community law to pay this compensation to workers taking early retirement who do not meet the conditions required under Danish law .
The Commission services set up a procedure for joint meetings and discussions with the Danish Government with a view to finding a common language and a common approach .
The last meeting on the subject was held in November 1999 and we are waiting for the Commission services ' final proposals on whether or not infringement proceedings will be instituted against Denmark .
I should like to ask the Commissioner expressly to confirm that the scheme has not been approved by the Commission .
I should like to ask the Commissioner if she can provide any approximate deadlines in connection with this matter , for it is a problem which needs clarification in the context of the Danish socio-political debate .
So I should be grateful if the Commissioner could enlarge upon this question .
Honourable Member , I should just like to stress that both Denmark and numerous other Member States are having problems interpreting the directives and transposing them into national law .
I think that the answer is brief and clear .
Of course it is as you say .
There will be no problem with Danish nationals within Denmark , that is not where the problem lies .
The problem is with Danish nationals or other nationals residing outside Denmark .
Question No 37 by ( H-0791 / 99 ) :
A proposal has been drafted for a directive to amend the directive on the working time of non-consultant hospital doctors .
The content of the proposal concerns the average 48-hour working week of doctors , with the possibility , following negotiation , of increasing it to 54 hours .
The Council , Commission and Parliament are all agreed on the content but there is disagreement on the transitional period for implementing the directive .
Parliament has proposed 4 years , the Commission 7 and the Council 13 .
This proposal is still being discussed by the Council and Parliament on the basis of the codecision procedure .
Question No 38 by ( H-0805 / 99 ) :
Subject : Measures to advance gender equality One of the working groups of Commissioners announced by President Prodi has as its objective the promotion of measures to advance gender equality ( gender mainstreaming ) .
Which Commissioners are members of this group ?
How many meetings of the group have been held to date ?
What concrete measures have been discussed ?
This question covers several individual matters .
It refers to the special Commission working group dealing with questions of equality .
The Commissioners taking part are President Prodi , Vice-President Kinnock , Mr Reding and myself .
The meetings of the working group are open and the first meeting was held on 11 January 2000 .
Mrs Avils-Perea , that was an exhortation rather than a question .
But if the Commissioner wishes to offer doctrine or good intentions ...
Allow me to say just one word . I agree that the working group should have met earlier but at least , once it did , important decisions were taken straight away .
Question No 39 by ( H-0807 / 99 ) :
Under this umbrella , each Member State is to submit proposals in the form of a Community initiative programme for that particular country .
What criteria will the Commission use to approve or reject the Member States ' programmes ?
Which Community body will control the funding of the steering group and the monitoring committee and verify that the programme is carried out exactly and correctly ?
The EQUAL initiative is not restricted to certain groups of people .
Its purpose is to combat discrimination in the workplace .
The decision on this initiative was taken in Berlin , where it was decided to take account of professional groups of asylum seekers and to include them in its action .
This is an important aspect of this initiative .
The Community initiative programme in each Member State must comply with the regulation .
This is the same as the Social Fund regulation , i.e. EQUAL comes under the Social Fund regulation .
It has been submitted to Parliament and we expect Parliament ' s opinion next month .
I should like to stress that the EQUAL initiative satisfies national requirements and national plans defined in accordance with agreed European strategy .
The Member States , i.e. the national governments , have primary responsibility for setting up the joint agencies , submitting proposals , selecting the proposals which the programmes will implement and carrying out primary control .
Within the European Commission , the Directorate-General for Employment is responsible for implementation , while financial control is the responsibility of the Directorate-General for Financial Control , the Anti-Fraud Office and the European Court of Auditors .
The last question concerns the amount granted .
Greece has been granted ECU 98 million .
The contribution commitment is 80 % , rising to an 85 % contribution from the initiative for the island regions , especially the remote Greek islands , and a contribution by Greece of 15 % .
Mr President , I feel that the guidelines for the Community EQUAL initiative , especially the four actions described in it , will result both in complicated bureaucracy and , paradoxically , a non-transparent structure .
For example , one wonders how a development partnership will prove its cooperative spirit or its representative capacity , as required by action 2 in paragraph 33 of the guidelines .
However , this contradicts the stated aim of the general objectives for decentralised action plans at the level of local authorities and rural areas .
However , at the same time , participation by those actually discriminated against , such as asylum seekers , immigrants and so on , is rendered impossible or merely symbolic .
Secondly , I have to say that the aim of the EQUAL initiative is not to reduce unemployment , it cannot possibly deal with the issue of reducing unemployment , or to support an increase in employment .
That is the job of the European Strategy for Employment and the Social Fund , which have huge sums of money and exceptionally large resources at their disposal , especially for countries like Greece .
The EQUAL initiative has a specific mission .
To encourage , to assist promotion , to create statistics , to create studies and agencies to support those sections of the population which suffer discrimination .
Question No 40 by ( H-0808 / 99 ) :
Subject : Article 13 TEU and Employment The draft Commission Directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation gives exemption to religious organisations ( Art. 4.2 ) .
Could the Commission please tell Parliament the circumstances and the groups within Article 13 ( TEU ) likely to be effected by such an exemption ?
A month ago , the Commission submitted a proposal on equal treatment in employment , as prescribed in the Treaty , in order to implement Article 13 .
The ban on discrimination is the rule in the package of directives and programmes which we submitted .
At the Commission ' s proposal and after approximately two years of consultation with social agencies , Member States and the European Parliament , a number of exceptions have been made .
These exceptions relate to professions which must be exercised by persons with a genuine professional qualification .
Allow me to give you a specific example to illustrate this .
In a religious school , it is logical for an exemption to be requested and accepted in order to ensure that the teacher is of the faith to which the religious school in question belongs .
That is the sort of exemption we are talking about .
Clearly this is not a general exemption and the different approach which allow Member States to introduce special provisions are only justified in the case of this special professional qualification .
This is a perverse interpretation of ending discrimination .
For instance , religious schools could quite properly say to a Roman Catholic for example : we do not want to employ you because you are a gay man or because you are a lesbian .
Here we have from the Commission a reinforcement of a hierarchy of oppression .
It allows a choice to be made only where special qualifications are needed which relate directly to the activity in question .
In other words , it is positive discrimination .
In the example which you mentioned , it is only logical that the teacher in a Catholic school should be Catholic .
That is the only form of exemption which is acceptable .
Question No 41 by ( H-0813 / 99 ) :
Does the Commission intend to put forward lowest common denominator policies which will properly reflect the admittedly extreme but nonetheless real-life situation of these women , or will their plight once again be overlooked by the new employment policies ?
Obviously , the cohesion policy exists for less-favoured regions and cooperation and joint action by the Structural Funds , the Social Fund and the Agricultural Fund exist for the cohesion policy .
I should point out that the funds available for regions with problems account for one third of the total budget .
I should point out that 70 % of funding for the period 2000-2006 , i.e. EUR 195 billion , will go to the less-favoured regions of Europe .
Commissioner , thank you for giving me a well-intentioned answer , which has been rigorous and well-argued .
However , I can assure you that we do not , with the existing measures - which you have referred to - reach these severely less-favoured regions .
They are areas where there is much need and we have to put them on an equal footing with those areas where we work in cooperation , where almost none exists .
I am very familiar with the programmes which you refer to .
I can assure you that we are not reaching the areas where there is most need .
I would therefore ask you to study the possibility of applying microcredit policies .
The Commissioner accepts and takes good note of Mrs Izquierdo Rojo ' s intervention .
Question No 42 by ( H-0817 / 99 ) :
Can the Commission say what its precise intentions are regarding the presentation of a new social action programme ?
We estimate that the Commission ' s new social action programme for the next five years will be ready at the end of this summer .
In order to complete the programme and be able to present it , we first need to complete our consultations with Parliament , the social partners and non-governmental organisations .
These discussions have already started , but we will need to take account of the results in Lisbon .
The Lisbon European Council is trying to take a new approach to the question of social exclusion and the link between social exclusion and the information society , economic policy and reforms .
These results will be most important in shaping the Commission ' s social programme .
Clearly , any future social action programme should take account of developments , for example within information technology , and , in time , become a modern social action programme .
We need to see which concrete alternatives the Commission will adopt during the coming period and which initiatives it will take for the purpose of reaching agreements .
Firstly , I agree with you entirely . Account will be taken of the information society ; that was something which I too mentioned .
Social exclusion , the programme for women , the efforts we are making in the social protection area , everything needs to be looked at now in the light of the new reality of the information society .
Secondly , there will obviously be timetables for the initiatives within which systematic monitoring will also have to be implemented .
Since the author is not present , Question No 43 lapses .
Question No 44 by ( H-0819 / 99 ) :
However , for people with various kinds of physical disability who are in need of special transport and personal assistance , freedom of movement is still highly restricted .
What measures is the Commission taking to facilitate opportunities for the disabled in this area ?
On 26 November 1999 , the European Commission approved a package of measures to combat discrimination .
As far as the package in question and people with special needs are concerned , there is a directive which concentrates on combating discrimination , especially in the workplace .
The European Commission believes that this initiative to combat discrimination will help to increase the level of employment of people with special needs and , in the end , to promote the freedom of movement of these persons .
Of course , it is particularly important for people with special needs to have access to means of transport , services and all types of installation if they are to exercise their right to freedom of movement .
The European Commission has approved a proposal for a directive on special arrangements in buses , coaches and other vehicles , so that people with special needs with mobility problems and people using wheelchairs have access to them .
I would thank the Commissioner for her answer .
My question in the first place concerns the opportunities the disabled have to take advantage of freedom of movement in Europe .
I am grateful for the fact that the Commission has adopted an action plan .
It is of course a prerequisite , however , that there be financial resources and means of actually crossing the borders physically if you have a disability .
I referred to the directive which the Commission has proposed on compulsory arrangements for means of public transport , so that people with special needs can use them .
It has not yet been passed by the Council ; it is at the consultation stage .
I think that a strategic decision of this sort can be taken at European level .
I think it is exceptionally difficult for us to specialise in aid programmes for personal transport .
That is dealt with either under special programmes in education , for young people , for women and for exchanges or must be a matter for national policy .
Question No 45 by ( H-0006 / 00 ) :
Subject : Compliance with Directive 96 / 71 / EC concerning the posting of workers The posting of workers directive has still not been implemented in Denmark , even though the deadline has passed .
The draft legislation before the Folketing does not contain any rules governing rights of employed persons under collective agreements .
However , such use of an agreement outside its specific scope cannot be imposed on the two sides of industry without a legal basis .
There are therefore two possible solutions : either the Directive is inapplicable in Denmark , or Denmark is required by the Directive to introduce universally applicable agreements .
If not , will it explain how the Directive is to be complied with in this area ?
What it says it that one of two things may apply , i.e. either the legislation in the host country or the collective agreements which have been declared to be the rules universally applicable to a specific sector .
In other words , to put it simply , Denmark has a choice : it can either introduce legislation or it can use the legislative process to choose a collective agreement and legally activate it .
Discussions are being held between the European Commission and Denmark , and Denmark is expected to notify the Commission of the transposition of this directive into its national legislation .
The deadline by which it had to answer the Commission ' s questions expired on 6 December 1999 and we have not received a reply .
We are waiting to see what the next move will be .
Firstly , no attempt is being made to change the system in Denmark or in any other country .
As far as your question is concerned , this problem does not only apply to Denmark .
It is not only Denmark which has matters pending .
Five countries have transposed this into national legislation and the rest are at the discussion stage .
And this is the direction in which we expect the Danish and the other nine governments to move .
Thank you very much , Commissioner , for your dedication .
You have fulfilled your objective for today , which is to answer all the questions .
We congratulate you .
Since the time allocated to Questions to the Commission has elapsed , Questions 46 to 68 will be replied to in writing .
That concludes Question Time .
( The sitting was suspended at 7.50 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m. )
1997 discharge
The Commissioner , Mrs Schreyer , is not here yet , but I hope , and expect , that she will arrive in the next few minutes .
Mr President , I am sure that Mrs Schreyer must have a very good reason for not being here because her absence would be inexcusable otherwise .
I would like to start by thanking my colleagues for their cooperation on this report , it would not be what it is today without that spirit of cooperation .
Mr President , early last year , the 1997 discharge was postponed because this Parliament could not possibly grant discharge to a resigning Commission which could not enter into any commitments for the future .
In its resolution , this Parliament stated that discharge could not be granted until we had received serious , far-reaching proposals for reform from the new European Commission .
This report , therefore , appears at a crucial time , on the eve of Mr Kinnock ' s reforms .
It is an excellent opportunity for this Parliament to introduce far-reaching reforms to these plans .
In the period leading up to this , it already appeared , on the basis of the initial drafts , that the Commission had made very important pledges .
We asked for a whistle-blower ' s regulation , and this is now in place .
Parliament wanted financial inspection and audit functions to be separated .
This has now been done .
Parliament requires a code of conduct for Commissioners and Cabinets .
This is in place too .
Parliament asked the Commission to waive its excessive privileges .
It did this as well .
The Commission has also entered into commitments to cooperate with Parliament in terms of SEM 2000 .
Fundamental changes will also be considered for the technical assistance offices .
These are sound , first steps which illustrate that , if this Parliament so wishes , changes are not only possible but can also be translated into action quickly .
We want more than that , however .
The Commission should now produce an ambitious and far-reaching reform programme .
This is not only necessary for proper public administration , it is a conditio sine qua non of regaining the trust of the European citizen .
We now demand from the European Commission clear pledges concerning the following points .
Firstly , Parliament must have complete access to all Commission documents .
This , however , presupposes that we set up an internal scheme quickly in order to be able to guarantee the confidentiality of sensitive documents .
In the context of providing information , I would like to draw the Commission ' s attention to the fact that we are very concerned about the present draft plans on public access to documents .
If the current draft is correct , then this is a huge step backwards in comparison to today .
We must put an end to the situation in which financially powerful organisations with representation in Brussels are able to access information whilst the ordinary citizen is not .
Neither can we tolerate a situation in which a public body holds the copyright to public documents .
We would also like a clear job description for each European official so that an official with conscientious objections can more easily object to tasks which are unethical or unlawful .
Ultimately , we also need to achieve better cooperation , of course , between the European Court of Auditors and its national counterparts .
This Parliament has also asked the Commission to give an initial outline of the external aid policy reforms on 31 March of this year .
It is unacceptable that the Commission completed the construction of a hospital in 1996 and that , as yet , it has been left unused .
Mr President , since 1996 , the discharge has acquired a heavy , political significance .
It is one of the most powerful weapons Parliament has and must therefore be deployed with care .
This is why we will most probably grant the discharge tomorrow .
However , we are not surrendering this weapon without placing a time bomb in its place .
Indeed , the 1999 discharge will not be given until all financial irregularities highlighted by the Court of Auditors have been cleared up .
Finally , this discharge report is naturally addressed to the Commission .
But this does not detract from the fact that the European Parliament should also put its own house in order .
As long as we have no status , we are not credible as a force for reforming the Union .
The reforms of the European institutions are necessary in order to be able to continue Europe ' s development process .
We cannot have a decisive and fair Europe unless it is also open and democratic .
All institutions must now join forces in order to work together towards building this type of Europe .
During the course of our work on this report it became clear that there are persistent problems in the spending areas under the control of our budget .
The second involves serious managerial shortcomings in the Commission , in particular in relation to coordination across departments and management of external contracts .
I know that all the Institutions bear some responsibility for the increasing workload of the Commission and for some of the lack of resources . That cannot excuse everything that we came across .
Citizens of Europe expect the European institutions to be properly managed and they are right to do so .
That is why I want to echo the comments from my colleague about the importance of the reform process which has been promised to the people of Europe by Mr Prodi and Mr Kinnock .
From what I have seen of the reform process , it looks good .
I saw some of Mr Kinnock 's papers today , I heard some of what he had to say .
I have every confidence that if we and the politicians of Europe support him we will see the kind of reform we need .
But we need that reform process .
Many of the general points raised in our committee 's report have been covered in Mrs van der Laan 's report .
It is an excellent report and we should all congratulate her on it .
It seems to hit on all the right points without just being like some of the old reports , a series of details .
It groups them together and that is very important .
There are two issues I would like to draw your attention to .
One is nuclear safety in Eastern Europe .
We have to get this right .
The Committee of Independent Experts said the Commission was not managing this properly .
We have to remedy that .
The second point is about scrutiny mechanisms .
We need from the Commission material we can use to help us scrutinise spending .
I hope colleagues in this House will support the grounds for discharge for 1997 and , at the same time , that the Commission will push ahead with the reform process which is long overdue .
Only in this way can we create a new culture in the Commission and at the same time get public confidence restored .
Mr President , Commissioner , if we are honest , we find ourselves in a somewhat unusual situation .
We are discussing last year ' s discharge , but also the Commission ' s responsibility .
I would like to raise the problems which are still piled up high on our desks .
The assessment of whether or not the discharge will be granted also depends to some extent on where the emphasis is placed .
It is about a Commission which is no more .
There is now a new Commission .
Then it is logical to grant discharge , because how can the current Commissioner be blamed where 1997 is concerned ?
The problems remain and this gives rise to doubts .
We have to take a decision now regarding the Commission ' s good intentions , but there is still no structural outline for these good intentions .
Mr Kinnock will present his proposal next month .
We are all very much anticipating this , but the facts are still missing at this time when we already have to decide whether or not to grant discharge .
It is clearly a dilemma with which the rapporteur has also struggled .
This dilemma stretches beyond the areas which I have already listed . Take , for example , the pledges made by the Commission .
They look good in themselves . I have read a few documents written by Mr Kinnock and we have every confidence in them .
But I will give two examples from which it is not as evident that the good intentions which the Commission has now expressed will lead to a good outcome : the public nature and confidentiality of documents .
The previous speaker already said something about this .
A document is circulating at the moment - not at a low level , but at a high level within the Commission - which , instead of enhancing the public nature of documents , is having the opposite effect .
This is an illustration of empty pledges not necessarily leading to good results . This also applies to whistle-blowers .
We have still not had a response to crucial questions of this type .
So there is doubt as to whether these pledges of the Commission contain enough substance at this crucial time when decisions need to be made .
This also applies , for example , to the very real projects which the Committee on Industry has introduced .
Clear progress must be visible .
At present , we trust that the Commission will produce these sound proposals , but it is not a foregone conclusion that it will do so .
Finally , Mr President , the 1996 discharge was the beginning of the end of the last Commission .
In assessing the question of whether or not to grant the Commission discharge , the decision must be based upon what actually occurred during the financial year concerned , in this case in the course of 1997 .
In our Group , we find it hard to see how the financial administration for 1997 was in any crucial way better than that for 1996 .
In that year , we voted against granting discharge . As a result , we shall vote against granting discharge for 1997 , too .
We think that this picture of ours is confirmed by the examination carried out by the Court of Auditors .
It is both good and necessary that reforms have been promised .
So far , the promises which have been made are still , however , to be fulfilled , especially where transparency is concerned .
We are therefore going to vote in favour of the demands for reforms which are presented in the resolution , but against the granting of discharge .
Mr President , first of all , I have only positive comments to make on Mrs Van der Laan ' s very expert work on this report .
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group cannot vote for approving the accounts for 1997 .
The report on so-called discharge contains a comprehensive and extremely critical survey of the accounts .
We support these critical remarks , and I must therefore state that it would seem quite absurd , against this background , to vote in favour of approving the accounts .
Again , I must say that we are concerned here with an extremely unfortunate confusion of the old Commission ' s accountability for 1997 and the new Commission ' s accountability for the future .
We do not think that the new Commission , under any circumstances , could incur liability for the past .
We think it is wrong to talk about the Commission ' s liability as an institution .
The mistakes up until 1999 are attributable to those who had responsibility at that time , and we still have no way of knowing whether the new Commission can do any better .
By means of this extraordinary procedure , Parliament is stopping itself from placing liability for the arrangements in 1997 squarely where it belongs , namely with the previous Commission .
It was the 1996 accounts which led to the downfall of the previous Commission , and the 1997 accounts are just as incriminating .
There is no reason why , against this background , we should agree to grant discharge .
That is just the way things are , however .
In taking over the mandate , the new Commission has to assume responsibility not just for the achievements of the past but also for the mistakes made .
This question ought to have been asked when the new Commission was appointed .
If Parliament votes in favour of the Committee on Budgetary Control ' s proposal this week and grants discharge , then the Commission must not take this to be a blank cheque .
For it is the third section of Mrs van der Laan ' s report that is the most important , to my mind , namely the motion for a resolution .
The comments contained within , under eight headings , are an integral part of the discharge , the implementation of which forms the basis of our decision .
We will be in a position to judge just as soon as the Commission presents its reform programme .
We will be able to use the discharge procedure for 1998 to check whether efficiency , transparency and accountability , and likewise a sincere willingness to provide information , are being displayed vis--vis the discharge authority .
Mr President , we all recall that Parliament decided to postpone the discharge for the 1997 financial year pending commitments from the new European Commission regarding internal reform .
In response to this the Commission has entered into various commitments and has certainly adopted many reform measures .
It is fair to say that the new President , Mr Prodi , and his team are certainly committed to implementing the financial control requirements as laid down by this Parliament .
Existing EU treaties will be amended so as to ensure , for example , that the enlargement process can succeed .
Mr President , the Commission is now to obtain its discharge for 1997 , but in reality it does not deserve it .
1997 was a matter for the old Commission and , therefore , the new Commission does not think that it can accept liability .
It is true that implementation of the Budget for 1997 fell within the old Commission ' s remit .
The new Commission has , on the other hand , undertaken to carry out a cleaning up exercise following former scandals , and I must admit that I am not impressed at all .
The old mindset which involved sweeping things under the carpet and protecting one ' s friends unfortunately still exists .
There are some who think that it is more in our interests to let bygones be bygones and make a fresh start .
I do not , however , think we can make a fresh start if we do not tidy things up properly .
I am referring here especially to the earlier scandals involving ECHO .
I am very indignant about the fact that it is so difficult to get any documents handed over on this matter .
I am the rapporteur for ECHO on the Committee on Budgetary Control , and I shall have a lot of difficulty carrying out my work if the Commission will not give me the necessary information .
From the outside , it looks as if the Commission has something to hide .
My investigations also unfortunately suggest that this could be the case .
The Commission is not putting all its cards on the table and is in that way repeating ancient practice on the part of the Commission .
It was this practice which led to the Commission ' s downfall .
I can therefore fully support the demand to give Parliament unconditional right of access to documents .
Otherwise , we cannot carry out our work .
Thank you , Commissioner Schreyer .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Response to Second Report of Committee of Independent Experts
Mr President , this time last year the European Parliament set up a committee of independent experts chaired by Mr Middelhoek to investigate allegations of fraud , nepotism and corruption in the European Commission .
On 15 March the committee published its first report concluding that : " It is becoming difficult to find anyone who has even the slightest sense of responsibility " .
Within a few hours of the presentation of the report President Santer announced the resignation of his entire team .
The resignation marked the end of a bitter struggle between an increasingly confident Parliament and a European Commission mired in allegations of scandal .
Since then the Brussels landscape has changed beyond recognition ; a new , reinvigorated Parliament has been elected and a new Commission confirmed in office .
The new Commission has already taken important steps to move away from the way it used to function .
A code of conduct for Commissioners and their private offices has been adopted .
In a symbolic but significant gesture Commissioners have voluntarily renounced their entitlement to the tax-free purchase of alcohol , tobacco , petrol and consumer goods .
New rules have been drawn up and implemented governing the appointment of senior officials .
The number of departments has been reduced .
The Commission , in my opinion , has shown a clear and unprecedented commitment to change and for this they are to be congratulated .
In order to achieve this , action is required in four areas .
First , financial management and control within the Commission must be improved .
One of the main problems is the lack of a functioning system of financial control .
The Commission 's DGs must be made fully responsible for their own expenditure , including financial control .
A new independent audit system service must be set up .
DGs must publish their own annual accounts so as to enable a clear identification of problem areas and set annual targets for reducing fraud and irregularities .
In return for this greater degree of autonomy , managers must be made fully and personally responsible for their actions .
It is clear that the transition to such a new system will take time .
Changes to the Financial Regulation will be required and Parliament must have its say on those changes .
But while the Commission must ensure that it respects the Treaty and the Financial Regulation in the transitional phase , this must not be an excuse for inertia .
Urgent change is required today .
Second , the fight against fraud , mismanagement and nepotism must be strengthened , firstly by creating a culture in which they cannot thrive .
This requires a clear example to be set by Commissioners and senior staff as well as adequate training and secondly , by reinforcing the existing mechanisms for dealing with fraud .
A proposal can be made , a proposal should be made , on the basis of Article 280 of the Treaty , by the middle of this year .
Third , standards in European public life must be upheld .
The political crisis which led to the downfall of the Commission earlier this year clearly demonstrated the need for unambiguous and enforceable rules of conduct .
A number of codes have since been introduced .
They must be assessed by Parliament and should be made legally binding .
Whistle-blowers who act in good faith must be protected .
At the end of last year Mr Kinnock announced new measures for the protection of whistle-blowers . They must be implemented without delay .
Although such measures can never be an alternative for good management , they must be an escape valve when something goes wrong .
Crucially , reforms must not be limited to the Commission .
Parliament must consider itself the need for improvements to its internal rules , administrative procedures and management practices .
Finally , the Commission 's human resource policy must be modernised . It is clearly no longer suited to the requirements of a modern , multinational organisation .
The social dialogue has often acted as a brake on reform and its overhaul is long overdue .
A career with the European institutions must become more attractive .
Too many young , new officials are leaving their jobs after just a few years .
Merit must be recognised and rewarded , specific skills training should be a sine qua non for promotion to a higher grade .
The promotions procedure must be made fairer and more transparent .
Last but not least the pay and benefits package must be reviewed .
It must become more flexible and more responsible to labour market conditions .
Commissioner Kinnock will , tomorrow , present his communication on reform .
This communication must contain a clear timetable .
With a new Commission and a new Parliament up and running the momentum for reform is now as strong as it ever has been and probably ever will be .
Enlargement of the Union is just a few years away .
Now is the time for Europe to put its own house in order ; to instil in its institutions - as the independent experts might have said - a sense of responsibility .
In June of last year Europe 's voters gave a clear signal that they are fed up with endless stories about mismanagement and nepotism .
There is a very simple way to deal with those stories . Let us get rid of mismanagement and nepotism .
All the experts can provide information and news , formulate opinions and give advice , but , they have no political or elective responsibility , and rightly so .
It is just as important for no-one to be able to or have to refuse the European Parliament or its committees any documentation .
Members of Parliament must possess the qualities of morality , discipline and discretion over delegated issues innately , and these certainly cannot be imposed on them by anyone else .
I would point out that there is no European legal system , but that a different legal system exists in each Member State .
We run the risk of delegating issues relating to the same offences which will then be punished in different ways .
I am opposed to European Community officials being accused of criminal acts at the drop of a hat : whistle-blowing is a method that has no place in the third millennium .
In conclusion , Mr President , Parliament must introduce a principle of democracy : we must implement reforms which allow Parliament to grow and expand its powers , not go into reverse .
This debate on the van Hulten report brings to a close one of the most traumatic periods for the European institutions since their creation in 1957 .
Those of us involved in these historic events are well aware that none of the upheaval would have been caused had we not acted with parliamentary power to press for changes in the way in which the Commission operated .
Remember that the Council of Ministers , absent again this evening from our debate , approved the 1997 discharge - not the 1996 - on the very day the Commission itself resigned on 15 March .
Now we come to the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts which we already had the opportunity to welcome and briefly debate last September .
Our greatest concern in the EPP is to ensure that public confidence in the European Commission is restored .
Further steps to build a strong Europe will be to no avail if the European peoples perceive that there is no adequate system of democratic accountability for over-zealous officials .
Under no circumstances will we concede ground which we have won over the past few months , which we believe to be in the interests of openness and transparency .
We are therefore concerned to see the flurry of Commission announcements in recent weeks by Commissioner Kinnock suggesting policy proposals of various kinds to be put in a White Paper shortly .
While conveying a desire to proceed rapidly , it also gives the impression that the Commission is in transmission rather than listening mode .
Our concern is strengthened if the rumour reported a few days ago is true - namely that the Commission wants to limit severely the access of Parliament to information .
This was , after all , one of the causes of the downfall of the last Commission .
Have the lessons not been learnt ?
We could , in no way , agree with his view that it would be demeaning for Parliament to set out detailed instructions as to what we wanted the Commission to take up in its reform package .
The less precise , Mr van Hulten , we are in our resolutions , the more room it gives the Commission and your former colleagues in the Council to do what they like .
We believe the vast number of recommendations of the Wise Men ' s report should be implemented .
Looking to the future , we know that we are at the beginning of a long process of continuing reform in the European Commission .
We want in particular to see the hard-working and highly competent norm for Commission officials acknowledged in the outside world - a reputation that has been darkened by the inappropriate conduct of a few individuals .
Commissioner , you will be aware from your presence in the last Commission why the crisis occurred .
In a nutshell : there were programmes being run for which there were insufficient staff resources available .
We urge you to take the opportunity to establish the real staffing needs of the Commission based on the essential activities for which it is responsible .
Our position was made very clear on this topic in the 2000 budget .
We will be vigilant over the next five years to ensure the reforms now being suggested are fully implemented and will support efforts made to modernise institutions .
But , equally , we will not hesitate to withdraw our support financially or otherwise should steps be taken which do not correspond to the openness promised by Commission President Romano Prodi prior to his nomination .
Mr President , I must start by apologising that I cannot be nearly as dramatic as Mr Elles in my presentation .
Can I first thank Mr van Hulten for this report .
It is an excellent report .
It would have been wrong for Parliament to have put in willy nilly every single recommendation that came from an external body because Parliament should have its own opinion on these issues .
It is right for us to have a focused report which is what Mr van Hulten has produced .
Can I invite Mr Elles not to put the cart before the horse .
Yes , a lot of things were lost by the Socialists but they have not been won in plenary yet , and may I warn him that may not be the case tomorrow .
I should like to thank Commissioner Kinnock for all his efforts so far .
He has been clear that his commitment has been to produce a radical change .
Central to this is the attempt to produce and engender responsibility .
It is clear that this needs to be developed at all levels and it needs to recognise the needs of each level within the Commission .
It is clear that we need to see a change in the Financial Regulation .
That is important .
We need to stop people passing the buck from one to another .
Where failure is occurring within the Commission we need to hold people responsible .
We need to be assured that consistent under-performance must lead to dismissal .
This is natural elsewhere but it seems to be an extremely radical suggestion when it is put to the Commission .
We cannot continue with a situation where incompetence , mismanagement and fraud are costing the European taxpayers money and providing them with a poor service .
I will give you one example of this . In the 1998 Court of Auditors report an exchange rate miscalculation in relation to Italian wine cost the taxpayers of Europe GBP 8 to 10 million .
It is clear that is not acceptable .
What happened to the person who was responsible for that miscalculation ?
We need a system which provides incentives and promotion and we need to see this promotion based on merit .
We recognise that most of the officials within the Commission are extremely hard-working .
But we also recognise that some of the practices are outdated .
We also need to recognise that people who live in glasshouses should not throw stones .
The European Parliament has not exactly been clean in its approach to things throughout its history .
We have a long way to go before we are perfect ourselves .
Our own staff policy is outdated . Some of our working practices need radical reform .
I hope that the European Parliament will be hanging onto the coattails of the Commission in this reform process .
Finally , can I say that the Commission needs to work on its relationships with the public .
European taxpayers need to be re-assured .
The fate of the Commission , of the whole European Union , rests on delivery of this reform .
That is the key issue , delivery of these proposals .
Mr President , I would like to start by extending my compliments to the rapporteur , Mr van Hulten , on his first report .
I very much admire him for keeping his spirits up at a time when he was inundated with so many amendments .
We have submitted an amendment to this effect .
From the many points made by Mr van Hulten in his report , I would like to highlight a few , not necessarily in order of importance but just randomly .
Firstly , I think that the Commission should pay much more attention to the proper storage of documents .
The Commission ' s records leave a great deal to be desired .
We noticed this when we had to investigate the Flechard affair , which , as it happens , has still not been sorted out .
Curiously , very important documents had gone missing from the cabinets , even from those of the President and of various Directorates-General , and this is clearly something which should not happen .
If Parliament want to carry out proper inspections , these documents must be available , and I would like to know what the Commission intends to do to improve this situation .
I would also like to say a few words about ex post financial control .
This has also been partly dealt with in the van Hulten report .
I think it would be useful if we were to give report figures per category and per sector on how the budget is implemented .
The general impression at present is that anything budget-related within Europe is bad .
It is clear that , over the past couple of years , we have noticed an upward trend in agriculture and a downward one in structural expenditure .
Is this possible ?
I would like to suggest to the Commission that it prescribe a deadline by which the reforms have to be carried out .
If we admit new Member States then we need to put our own House in order first .
Mr President , I would firstly like to thank Mr van Hulten .
It is his first report here in plenary .
This is worth a compliment although I regret , of course , that he did not expound it in his own mother tongue .
It is a report which came about with difficulty and may well be too late .
In my opinion , this is mainly down to the wrangling between the two major groups within our Committee on Budgetary Control .
Let us be honest .
The second report of the Wise Men arrived in September .
We are now four months down the line .
Meanwhile , Mr van Hulten has been inundated with amendments , more than 100 amendments in the first round .
He went back to work , rewrote his report and took into account the very many suggestions , but had to face nearly another 100 amendments in the second round .
My fear is that all of this has contributed to a report which is too detailed , too extensive and too late .
Might Mr Kinnock be able to throw some light on the matter this evening ?
Mr van Hulten , my Group of the Greens and regionalists will support the attempts in tomorrow afternoon ' s plenary meeting to embellish this report .
After all , it makes no sense to copy the many sound recommendations made by the Committee of Wise Men word for word in your report .
So tomorrow , if we vote against some amendments or against specific paragraphs , this is certainly not on account of their content but rather to render your report as a whole more readable .
In any case , it should be clear that my group , of course , fully backs the recommendations made by the Committee of Wise Men .
In any event , I look forward to the document which was approved by the Commission today .
I also look forward to the White Paper which will be available in February .
I would like to end on the following point .
I think that there is a need for this , as public opinion is looking for change and , in any event , my group would like to see a clear change by the end of 2002 .
Mr President , this report is positive but , actually , we need more than this .
Fraud , mismanagement and nepotism do not come from nowhere . They are most likely to occur if there is little democratic control on cash flow .
Via the structural funds , a great deal of the European budget is being pumped around the system .
This is only useful as long as there is a sense of solidarity where rich Member States contribute to both the revenue and development of poorer Member States .
But there is also funding which is being pumped via Brussels back to the same rich Member States .
Districts and regional authorities consider this as their own money but they can only get their hands on this by investing vast amounts of money and manpower in lobbying and negotiating .
After each incident of improper use of this money , and certainly after fraud , the call for stricter control is more pronounced .
Even the strictest control cannot solve this problem . It will , at best , lead to more bureaucracy and less room for local democracy and for people to get involved in choosing and developing projects .
It would be preferable if national governments channelled this money directly to their local governments without a European detour .
This is probably the only way to achieve less fraud , less overheads , more transparency and more democracy .
Mr President , a year has not yet passed , but it is already clear that Parliament is going to evaluate the first and second reports differently .
Trade union representatives sit on the Disciplinary Board and the Staff Regulations Committee , thereby making it impossible to remove disloyal officials and preserving the Staff Regulations in their fossilised state .
I therefore understand why we are meeting at this time , which is usually set aside for other activities and not for debates , discussions and the exchange of information .
Mr President , when it comes to putting its own house in order , the European Commission is in a Catch-22 situation .
There is enormous pressure of expectation following the events that led to the resignation of the previous Commission .
I sometimes have the impression that the more radical the proposals made here in this Chamber sound , the more applause they receive .
This may explain why we experienced more difficulties than anticipated in the Committee on Budgetary Control as regards this issue .
Nevertheless , the outcome is now on the table and there for all to see , and I would expressly like to thank Mr van Hulten for the work he has done on this report .
Provided this report is not watered-down yet again by the adoption of amendments , it will afford us the opportunity to make clear and unambiguous demands of the Commission on a number of crucial points .
Allow me to start with the most important demand .
We do not want financial control to be abolished .
The financial controller should still be able to make checks before funding commitments or payments are made , not in every case , but wherever uncertainties or risks arise .
The Commission is sending out the wrong signals here , by renaming the Directorate-General for Financial Control as the Directorate-General for Audits , for example .
It may well be easy enough to change the Commission ' s organisation chart but it is a different matter when it comes to the legal texts , particularly those relating to budgetary discipline .
This cannot be ignored or evaded , certainly not on account of soft law , as was once suggested at a meeting of our Committee .
It is to be welcomed that Mr van Hulten ' s report makes the connection between all three areas and also makes it clear as to where the crucial shortcomings lie , which must be tackled .
A few salient points : the disciplinary procedures are not taking effect , especially when it comes to calling officials to account for their misdemeanours , including those of a financial nature .
There is a large grey area and a great lack of clarity where criminal sanctions are concerned , and it is precisely in this area that the announcements made by the Commission are rather vague .
I can only emphasise that these are the really hard nuts that finally need to be cracked .
Mr President , firstly I would like to extend my heartfelt congratulations to my colleague , Mr van Hulten .
It is a good feeling to be able to say that he is from our delegation and I am , I think , entitled to feel a little proud of him .
I would in any case like to congratulate him on his report .
Mr President , the Commission ' s resignation has also created a culture of fear amongst many officials within the hierarchy and large bureaucracy .
The call to make a cultural U-turn and embrace a culture of responsibility seems to me a very fundamental one .
A lack of responsibility , too much ex ante , not enough ex post and , as a result , far too little in the way of a culture of real effective spending .
It would be marvellous if this report were to give the green light to result-oriented spending of this kind , with all the work organised on that basis .
When the Commission ' s first draft report soon becomes the official report on 1 March , I very much hope that our input here will help ensure that we will actually witness this change .
This is the best support we can give to European democracy .
If , in this way , we can move away from the culture of the fifties and cross over into the next century , we are witnessing a very special moment indeed .
Mr President , first of all , congratulations to Michiel van Hulten for his first report .
It was a baptism of fire but we have a saying in the Netherlands appropriate for this occasion : in at the deep end and you will swim in no time .
Mr van Hulten , I think you deserve a medal for your efforts .
There are two points which , in my opinion , deserve special attention on the part of the ELDR .
Firstly , there is the Commissioners ' individual responsibility .
This must be regulated during the IGC .
Secondly , as already mentioned by my colleague , Mr Mulder , the ELDR is of the opinion that the European Parliament should also be investigated by independent experts .
This will contribute hugely towards re-establishing the confidence of the European citizens in this institution .
We at the European Parliament cannot be a credible counterpart to this reformed Commission as long as we do not search our hearts and put our own House in order as well .
Only when all European institutions are reformed will we have the open , democratic and decisive Europe which our citizens now finally deserve .
Mr President , I also wish to congratulate Mr van Hulten on this first piece of work which he is presenting to the House .
I am sure that it will serve , amongst other things , to make his second report more flexible and for him to step up efforts to find a consensus amongst the groups .
At this stage , there can be no delay in the process of reforming the Commission , demanded by our citizens .
This Parliament has often heard the desire to reform the Commission expressed , even by its Presidents .
It now appears that this desire is more serious .
This Parliament anxiously awaits this complete reform programme .
The report that we are debating today intends to give political force to many of the recommendations of the Committee of Experts commissioned by this Parliament .
Mr Prodi said he would act anyway , that he preferred to get things right , but that fear of not getting things right would not prevent him from acting .
We therefore ask that his programme be a bold one and , if it is , I can assure him that he will have the support of this House in the reform process .
We want a strong Commission , which can act in an independent and neutral manner , but with political sense .
Commissioners should not be considered senior officials but rather politicians in office .
Therefore , the report allows them to be members of political parties and to be members of political bodies affiliated to their parties .
Perhaps the reference to the posts is imprecise .
I do not know your exact view in this respect , Mr Kinnock , but it is clear that we want Commissioners who are politically strong and politically committed .
We want a structure which allows every Euro to be spent effectively , and our accounts demonstrate that this is not happening at present .
Mr President , the Santer Commission came to grief because financial control failed all down the line .
Therefore , the future of this new Commission will depend in no small measure on the extent to which reforms are swiftly undertaken here and financial control is back in working order .
Naturally , this is only to be welcomed .
What I do not understand is why this has to come at a price , as it were , that is , of having to dispense with independent - and I stress , independent - prior approval .
Up until now , the Commission ' s payments could only be made when the authorising officer signed the appropriate order and the financial controller gave his approval in the form of a visa .
And so it is the " two key " principle that applies here .
A single key is to suffice in future .
The financial controller is no longer to make advance checks , if all goes to plan as regards the reforms currently under discussion within the Commission .
If you will pardon me for saying so , Mr Kinnock , what you are proposing is a little like abolishing the police because they were unable to prevent crimes .
What we really need to focus on , however , is making the checks more effective .
This could be achieved by no longer insisting , in future , that the financial controllers furnish every single payment transaction with their approval stamp .
It is precisely those who feel the need to control everything that end up controlling nothing at all .
Therefore , in future , prior approval should take place in a targeted manner , that is , only in cases of uncertainty or risk .
However , the financial controllers must work independently .
That is the crucial difference between our plans and those of the Commission , when it talks in terms of decentralisation .
It is obviously the Commission ' s intention to make the financial control officials subordinate to the individual Directorates-General , but this is precisely what we do not want .
Surely we have learnt this much from the events surrounding the Leonardo affair , when the internal examiners in the relevant Directorate-General issued warnings , but these were neither heeded nor passed on .
Therefore , independence is prerequisite for effective checks .
That is the position which a clear majority of the Committee on Budgetary Control subscribes to .
Indeed , the new Commission has now declared itself in favour of follow-up checks having this independence , and so would it not make sense for a system of prior approval to enjoy such independence as well ?
I believe we should set the seal on this point at tomorrow ' s vote .
Mrs Theato has already expressed as much and I am only too willing to support her in this regard .
Mr President , a couple of years ago , the previous Commission tried once and for all to tackle rigid and obsolescent structures .
This led to strikes and smear campaigns by intransigent trade unions , whereupon the proposals were abandoned and replaced by a wishy-washy compromise .
This was stupid of the old Commission , and Parliament was of no help on that occasion .
When I read Mr van Hulten ' s passage about personnel policy , I am afraid that Parliament may again be failing to tackle the crucial issues and just spouting a lot of hot air .
There are too many rights , too many regulations and too little room for leadership .
There is no backbone , and no teeth .
Where is the beef ?
And I would also say this to you , Commissioner : please , deliver the beef even if it is British .
Romano Prodi promised a revolution .
You have said some powerful and worthwhile things yourself , but take care now that you do not dodge the crucial issues , the ones where it hurts !
Sort out the tangle of staff allowances .
Stand firm on the demand for mobility , not as a right , as it says here in the report , but as a management tool .
Ensure too , that training becomes a management tool .
Do not listen to the report ' s demands that temporary staff should have their employment confirmed .
It is the posts which should possibly be made permanent and not necessarily those employed on a temporary basis .
We have not done this so far , and this is something you ought to be instrumental in changing .
Mr President , I want to thank Mr van Hulten for his report and to say that I voted for it .
So I refer to the things I do not agree with .
I do not agree with the paragraphs in relation to Parliament .
This report is about the Commission .
Parliament is a separate subject .
There is no need for us to bring Parliament into the discussion on the Commission .
In addition to that , there is the question of duty-free .
That was a stick used to beat the Commission by the duty-free lobbies who resented the fact that the Commission abolished duty-free in airports .
It is not worthy of being brought into this report either .
Most of the report is about financial control . That is reasonable because it comes from the Budgetary Control Committee .
But we should not create the impression that vast amounts of European resources are being put at risk by carelessness in the European Commission .
After all , it is only 1 % of GDP , by comparison with national spending .
So carelessness within the Commission in the spending of money is not likely to put at risk vast quantities of money .
We should get it into perspective . It is important to remember that .
The business of the European Commission is very little about spending money . They have very little of it .
I am not one of the people who agrees that there is a vast lack of trust .
If there is , we have generated it in this House in the past year .
I have been here for 20 years and found absolute trust between the Council , the Commission and Parliament .
That is a gross exaggeration of what the difficulties were .
This Commission should not have to live forever in the shadow of the mistakes that caused the resignation of the Commission that went before it .
While there were problems - and we have to resolve them in view of enlargement , for instance - we sometimes take the negative side too far .
Mr President , I should very much like to thank the rapporteur for his splendid report .
I hope that the Commission will use it in its reform work .
The process of reform has been going on for some time , and something like a state of emergency seems to prevail in the Commission .
The Commission ' s administration simply does not function particularly well .
Naturally , there are good , capable employees in the Commission , and they are in the majority .
But we need radical reform .
There is too little action and too much unnecessary bureaucracy .
People should have clearly-defined powers to take decisions for which they should also be accountable .
The Financial Regulation should be amended .
We agree that we should have better control of the finances .
It is just a question of how .
The Commission and the Committee of Independent Experts are in favour of completely doing away with ex ante financial control .
We should be careful about this . We should retain some form of ex ante financial control .
It is not enough simply to carry out spot checks once the money has been spent .
This would allow too many anomalous projects to slip through .
Instead , we should be reforming and decentralising control .
The Commission does not have enough staff .
And the Commission should be able to refuse new tasks if it does not also get the extra staff it needs .
The staffing system is too rigid .
There should be a more frequent rotation of employees , especially at the top of the hierarchy .
It should also be much easier to sack inefficient and incompetent employees .
I am therefore very pleased that the disciplinary procedure is to be reformed .
After all , the very bad experiences so far with disciplinary proceedings show all too clearly how necessary it is that we carry out reforms .
I hope , like so many others , that the state of emergency in relations between the Commission and Parliament is on the way to being resolved .
We must get away from the idea that we are rushing to put out a fire in one corner , only then to have to rush again to put out the next one .
As Mr Blak said , we must instead establish a system with clear roles .
First of all , we need tough regulations , which can be implemented .
Codes of conduct and ethical committees are not enough . There need to be tough rules stating , among other things , what may be decentralised , what may be outsourced and what is independent .
What we need , then , are basic administrative regulations for the EU , for its institutions and for the EU in its relations with the Member States .
These are what are missing .
We have asked for a Public Prosecutor ' s Office and criminal law , but we also need administrative law for the EU .
We should make a good deal of progress if the Commission were to adopt , as binding regulations , the ombudsman ' s proposal of a code of conduct for good administrative practice .
The van Hulten report is a step in the right direction , but it is not enough .
Secondly , we must also clarify our own auditing roles .
The Court of Auditors is to monitor the extent to which actions are incompatible with the regulations , but it should not examine the expediency of a particular action .
It is the European Parliament which is to carry out the political evaluation .
We do not hunt down criminals . That is OLAF ' s job .
Tell me what national parliament , for example , is handed all preliminary investigation documents .
Mr President , I would like to extend a warm thank you to the rapporteur for his report .
I am pleased that I can address him now in Dutch , now that Mr Van den Berg has just done so .
Otherwise I probably would have felt slightly guilty about this .
I would like to say that this report represents a huge improvement , also with its amendments .
I think that this is also the case here , but I think it would be a bit over the top to spend too much time talking about these 100 amendments .
I would also point out that our coordinator on the Budgetary Control Committee is Mr Poms Ruiz , who is Spanish and has hence made a major contribution to this debate from a Spanish perspective .
Mr President , one of the key aspects which have been mentioned is , to my mind , the rapporteur ' s proposal for the standing committee on standards in public administration .
A very important proposal indeed .
I am only very surprised that the Socialist group would like to subordinate this proposal to one tabled by Mrs Morgan , because she wants to scrap it altogether .
I cannot fully grasp the underlying rationale .
I do not know whether this is to appease Mr Kinnock , but I happen to know Mr Kinnock .
He is happy to hear what our demands are and is quite prepared to be flexible if he considers it necessary .
In my opinion , such a far-reaching scorched earth policy is really unnecessary .
Finally , the issue of officials .
Actually , I do not entirely share Mr Haarder ' s view .
I do agree that the section on officials has , in fact , been completed totally inadequately .
First of all , the importance of a public service in general is not at all emphasised .
Secondly , all kinds of proposals are nevertheless being mooted , and we have to ask ourselves whether these are terribly appropriate and whether they would lead to improvement .
For example , we are currently looking into TAOs . This is a key point but , at the same time , we want to abolish temporary staff at the Commission .
These two considerations are diametrically opposed to each other , and I really fail to grasp how such a proposal can end up on the table .
Mr President , ever since Plato ' s ' Republic ' , the Western world has regularly been tempted to replace government by the people with government by experts .
This lesson in wisdom is 100 % ideology and 0 % knowledge .
This will not help us to reform the European institutions whilst fully respecting democratic institutions .
The van Hulten report started out as a brilliant one and I would like to pay deep and sincere tribute here to what Mr van Hulten achieved .
Unfortunately , it was then changed , and changed for the worse , which turned it into a document which in fact , proposes something that we cannot accept .
Mr President , Mr van Hulten , your work is worthy of being qualified as enterprising , arduous and complex , and I believe this is important in a first report .
Please therefore accept what I am about to say as being criticism made in the spirit of honest debate , and I believe that in this way our debate here today will be richer .
This report seems to me to be redundant , long-winded , confused and lacking in accuracy in the terms used .
Perhaps ' redundant ' is the most serious epithet , and you are not responsible for this . It is the responsibility of this Parliament .
Clearly we are awaiting this reform from the Commission , we are awaiting the proposals which the Commission is going to make to us and this Parliament will have to express its opinion on them .
Meanwhile , we have to offer the Commission a vote of confidence .
' Long-winded ' .
I am not going to mention the length of this report .
I do not know if it breaks the record for all the resolutions presented here , but , for this type of resolution it certainly does .
It is also ' confusing ' .
I am not going to return to what has been said about the analysis of questions concerning Parliament .
That should be the subject of another report and we will have to carry one out and consider that issue , but not in this report .
And finally , Mr President , frankly , I am not going to give examples , but there are many cases in which legal language is used with an alarming lack of accuracy .
Therefore - in summary - I await , and many of us await , your report , Commissioner Kinnock , so that we can really express our opinion on it , which is the duty of this Parliament .
Mr President , the scope and highly detailed nature of the proposals for necessary reform measures show just how important these reforms are .
When one considers the events that have set these endeavours in motion though , it is only too clear as to why there is a need for them .
Hopes and expectations were raised higher still by the strong messages sent out by Commissioners Prodi and Kinnock in plenary and in the Committee on Budgetary Control .
The concept of transparency stands out in the report .
Securing this is a major priority .
The importance of smooth-running , comprehensible work cannot possibly be emphasised enough .
This is not just about bureaucratic reform , however ; rather , it is about showing good will towards the citizens .
We must win back their faith in EU politics .
The citizens demand rapid and open access to the institutions and call for EU provisions to be comprehensible to them .
This is what enables them to understand what is going on . They want to see the politics of success and believe that this is how any politically mature citizen could expect to be served
Whether or not the reforms succeed depends , to a very large extent , on the Commission ' s own initiative .
However , it annoyed me when I heard today that the Commission is now saying that it only wishes to discuss the interim report with Parliament on an informal basis .
I believe , Mr Kinnock , that notwithstanding all the success achieved on a personal level , the Commission still has quite a lot to do to satisfy our justifiably high expectations .
So if she has any lectures to offer they are best contained within this House .
Mr President , may I begin by paying tribute to the painstaking and , from what I hear , the pains-accepting work of Mr van Hulten in preparing his report .
I thank him and I wish him a long and distinguished career as a representative .
Naturally I will not take up any more of the time of the House than is absolutely necessary .
I am sure that Mr Pomes Ruiz is encouraged by that .
There is nothing therefore that is open-ended or vague about the report which I have had the honour to compile .
The considered view of this Parliament in the consultation period over the next four to five weeks will for obvious reasons be of great significance .
I would say to Mr Elles that we are most definitely in listening mode .
Hence the transmission .
Turning to the main themes of the resolution I offer the following observations .
The need for transparency is rightly stressed , not least because greater transparency in the way in which the Commission operates will improve the efficiency and will also demystify what the Commission does .
This is essential for an executive administration that must be accountable , not just to this House , but more generally to the European public .
Naturally , sensible safeguards are required to protect specially sensitive information , but the cases where these are needed should be kept to the minimum possible .
I have repeatedly emphasised that , indeed not just as a Commissioner , but in 25 or 30 years of campaigning .
That most certainly is the intention of the Commission .
Financial management and control is obviously a crucial area of reform .
Several Members have made that point again in the course of today 's debate .
We share the view , forcefully expressed by the Committee of Independent Experts , and repeated in this draft resolution that the time has come for a thorough overhaul of our rules and procedures .
The means of doing that are set out in the reform strategy and the Commission will present its proposals for a radical recasting of the Financial Regulation in April .
Parliamentary support in pursuing that essential course for change will be absolutely vital .
I share the view expressed by Mrs Theato that it would not be acceptable in any way at all for us to seek to operate new arrangements without a change in the law .
Change in the law is fundamental .
That service will open on 1 May this year .
It will be headed by a professionally qualified member of the audit profession and its independence must and will be guaranteed through a new provision to be added in the financial regulation .
The new service will report to me and it will be accompanied by an Audit Progress Board chaired by my colleague , Mrs Schreyer , who I am delighted to see in the Chamber this evening .
As Budgets Commissioner , here responsibilities already include relations with the Court of Auditors .
This Audit Progress Board will ensure effective and rigorous follow-up to internal audits .
I want to emphasise strongly that changing our control systems will definitely not mean relaxing them .
The proposed change will make the systems more effective , both in terms of inputs and in terms of measured and accountable outcomes .
I can also specifically assure the House that we are not going for what is sometimes called " a big bang approach " .
Financial control ' s ex ante visa for each spending department will only be relinquished as and when the internal control system in a department is shown to be fully adequate .
I am somewhat surprised that paragraph 10 of the draft resolution does not appear to address the fundamental criticisms of the current centralised financial control function made in both reports of the Committee of Independent Experts .
That committee was very clear about the need to abolish the centralised ex ante visa .
It was clear too on the need to separate internal audit from financial control .
In addition , I do not believe that paragraph 10 fully reflects the opinion of the Court of Auditors in 1997 .
" The Commission 's internal control " he said " is not forceful enough in preventing incorrect operation .
For instance , the Financial Controller granted a positive a priori visa in most of the cases of mismanagement or irregularities recently uncovered .
At the same time , the internal audit function is carried out in an uncoordinated way by several bodies , notably the same Financial Controller , the Inspectorate General and by some units operating Directorates-General . "
I do not believe that there is any real disagreement between us on this .
I take it from paragraph 10 that the underlying preoccupation of honourable Members is that there should be a carefully managed transition .
That will most certainly be the character of the change as honourable Members will see when they read the reform strategy document .
Our objective , the committee ' s objective , the Court of Auditors ' objective is not to abolish financial control , it is to get rid of and improve upon centralised financial control .
Turning quickly to the section of the resolution on fighting fraud , corruption , mismanagement and nepotism : the major new proposal of the report concerns reporting by Commission officials of perceived wrong-doing .
Since June of last year , the OLAF regulation has given better guidance to staff about reporting possible irregularities .
We propose to complement those provisions by defining the rights and obligations for officials to report suspected wrong-doing through internal channels but not exclusively within the same hierarchical line .
The possibility of using specified external channels will also be addressed .
We are seeking to implement best practice .
As a corollary , there will be safeguards for officials who are the subject of false allegations .
A communication later this year will give full details .
We already plan to reform the existing disciplinary procedures to ensure thoroughness , fairness , consistency and professionalism .
And we will propose the establishment of an interinstitutional Disciplinary Board - something else on which we will need the support and understanding of Parliament .
A communication in June will set out the full proposal for change .
Standards in public life is the next main section of the report before the House .
With the introduction of a series of codes of conduct the current Commission has begun to develop an explicit ethical framework .
This will be taken a step further with a proposal in June for an interinstitutional agreement on a committee on standards in public life .
That is in line with the draft resolution .
An important role for the committee will be to give advice on ethics and standards and to supervise common and separate codes of conduct for the institutions .
I welcome Parliament 's support for that .
We are also currently examining how we can most effectively implement the proposal for a classification system for documents , made in paragraph 50 of Mr van Hulten 's report .
The draft resolution rightly recalls the Commission 's accountability to this Parliament .
President Prodi and Vice-President de Palacio and other colleagues have demonstrated the Commission 's practical commitment to that .
I hope that we will soon be able to agree a code of conduct on relations between our institutions which will include updated rules on access to documents .
The point was very properly raised by Mr Elles and referred to by Mrs Thors .
I am sure they are aware that in mid-December we officially received the draft framework agreement with Parliament .
We are now waiting for Parliament to decide when it wishes to begin negotiations on the text .
We are very happy to proceed as rapidly as possible .
The report rightly emphasises the central importance that human resources policy must have in reform .
I also want to move towards a linear career system because the current category system is no longer adapted to the needs of our institutions .
It certainly blocks the advance and mobility of people with proven capabilities .
While the reform strategy White Paper will clearly outline our ideas on these and other points , detail and precision are obviously essential .
A series of communications will therefore follow in the coming months . Each of them will be available for reflection and response by this House .
It is , meanwhile , very obvious that we will need to work closely with Parliament , as an institution , on central matters of common interest , notably pay and pensions and the revision of the staff regulations .
The early thoughts of Parliament on this consultative idea would be especially welcome .
I conclude by referring to paragraph 15 of the resolution before the House relating to the resource requirements of our policies for change .
That is most certainly relevant .
We are sure that there will be an important " reform dividend " as the modernisation measures begin to foster increased efficiency and better management in the use of resources .
It is very clear , however , that parts of the Commission services are already very stretched .
Parliament has frequently made that point .
Secondly , it is also clear that reform will require some new investment in training for skills and in technology .
Thirdly , it is very clear that increased preparations for enlargement must be undertaken .
They are already having implications for resource availability .
A central feature of the reform will therefore be a more rigorous process for tying the process of priority-setting into resource allocation under a system of activity-based management .
The Commission therefore welcomes paragraph 15 of Mr van Hulten 's report .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
( The sitting was closed at 11.15 p.m. )
Middle East peace process ( continuation )
The next item is the continuation of the Council and Commission statements on the Middle East peace process .
Such is life .
I hope that honourable Members will excuse me if I am not able to stay to the end of the debate as I would , in all normal circumstances , wish to do .
The debate was fixed for this morning and on that basis I had arranged to see visitors from the Balkans this evening .
So I hope I can count on the understanding of the House on this occasion .
It is not something , I assure you , which I would wish to make a practice of .
There is reasonable hope that a basis for a peace agreement can be built in the near future .
At the same time we must not lose sight of the Palestinian track .
The situation of the Palestinians has always been the core issue of the conflict .
A fair and , indeed , generous deal with them remains the key to lasting peace in the Middle East .
Israelis and Palestinians have made substantial progress in implementing the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum .
Although there has been some slippage , I trust that the remaining Israeli troop redeployments will materialise soon .
I was reassured that this was also the view of Prime Minister Barak and President Arafat , when they met on Monday .
Honourable Members will know that one particular concern of ours has been that there should be a resumption of progress on the multilateral track .
This is far from straightforward but we will do what we can to make this possible , in close liaison with the US and Russian co-sponsors as well as the regional parties .
We are charged with particular responsibility for the promotion of regional economic development .
The beginning of the talks with Syria paved the way for a convening of the multilateral steering group in Moscow at the end of the month .
I look forward to attending that meeting and hope that at last we can begin to push things forward again .
The European Union has an important role to play in the peace process , as all sides - Palestinians , Israelis , their Arab neighbours and the United States - have acknowledged .
Nor is our role confined to that of banker .
We must be prepared to act swiftly to support the consolidation of peace in the region .
But we should not kid ourselves : a comprehensive Middle East peace deal comes with a hefty price tag .
The Commission is already considering the implications for the European Union of the recent encouraging developments .
We intend to share our more detailed thoughts on the matter with Parliament and Council soon .
But let me remind honourable Members that the European Union is no slouch when it comes to financial support for the peace process .
We are the largest of all donors to the Palestinians .
We have also offered very substantial support to Jordan , Lebanon , Syria and Egypt .
With the Israelis we have established closer cooperation in a number of areas of particular interest to them .
European Union Member States together contributed another EUR 860 million during that crucial period .
In this context , let me applaud the important steps that the Palestinian authority has recently taken to improve budgetary transparency .
President Arafat will be meeting the Council of Ministers next week .
This will be a good opportunity to address the need to take similarly courageous steps to improve the Palestinian administration and to bolster the rule of law .
The Commission is actively involved in those efforts .
The Commission has also stepped up its planned support for regional cooperation projects between Israelis and Arabs .
We committed more than EUR 20 million for such projects last year .
This package included renewed assistance for people-to-people activities and cross-border cooperation where Israelis and Arabs meet on non-governmental and expert levels .
Members will recall that the European Union is the largest financial donor to the overall efforts in bringing reconciliation to the people of the Middle East .
Syrian economic development will need assistance for the transition from a wartime to a peace economy .
Reconstruction and rehabilitation of southern Lebanon , the only Middle Eastern area with an ongoing military conflict , will also demand considerable efforts .
We also need to continue our support for economic reform and social development in Lebanon as a whole .
A solution is needed to the Palestinian refugee problem - these are the largest group of refugees in the world , numbering nearly 5 million people - an indication of the enormous challenges ahead .
We must support initiatives increasing the availability and improving the distribution and management of the region 's very scarce water resources .
It is already apparent that the financial resources currently available for Community assistance to this part of the world will not be sufficient for the magnitude of support that will be required in the event of permanent peace .
I want to underline that point .
I wish insistently to remind the Council and , should it be necessary , Parliament , that we should not continue to allow a gap to develop between our rhetoric and what we are actually capable of doing .
I repeat that a change in the politics of the Middle East will require a gear change in the support that we shall be asked and expected to provide .
I hope I can add that we will want to provide that .
We have made progress in recent months and weeks , as Mr Gama mentioned earlier .
But it is inevitably going to be a tough process with difficulties and disappointments on the way .
We will do all we can to help the process to a successful conclusion and to meet the obligations and challenges that will be created by that outcome .
I hope the House will understand that .
Mr President , Commissioner Patten has our understanding .
I would like to tell him that communications with Madrid are usually more fluid and , therefore , I hope to see him there soon .
The tone of the news in the media on the recent events in the area could lead us to take a pessimistic view of the situation .
I honestly believe that an evaluation of this type would not be in accordance with the reality of that situation .
In this sense , I share Commissioner Patten ' s positive attitude .
Let me explain : it is true that the Israeli Government has delayed the third hand-over of West Bank territory to the Palestinian authorities .
This is naturally on the condition that the delay does not exceed three weeks , as Prime Minister Barak has promised .
I would therefore like , equally firmly , to express our rejection of the use of violence to resolve differences , which are still no doubt profound , between the parties .
It is clear to everyone that this is essential to guaranteeing security in the area and to cooperating in the development which is needed to heal the serious social differences which exist .
There is absolutely no doubt that the forthcoming trip by the President of the European Parliament to the region will contribute to this .
Mr President , I want to thank Commissioner Patten for his detailed account .
I should like to say that I agree with the tone which Galeote Quecedo ' s speech set here . We in Parliament strongly support the Middle East peace process .
It is , of course , a peace process which is finally under way .
If we think of how the process was looking a year ago , the difference between then and now is like that between night and day , despite difficulties and delays .
This applies both to the interim agreement and to the Hebron and Wye Agreements . While the negotiations on the final peace settlement have begun , I think it is important to keep the two processes apart .
A lack of progress in the final status negotiations should not jeopardise implementation of the three above-mentioned interim agreements .
The second point relates to Syria . There , the border question is obviously central .
How negotiations are proceeding there , we still do not know .
What is important , however , is that they have begun .
An important question in this context is the future distribution of water .
As things are at present , the Golan Heights account for between a third and a sixth of Israel 's water supply .
The third aspect is the peace negotiations in Syria which are closely linked to the issue of Israeli withdrawal from Southern Lebanon .
According to UNIFIL , there are now concrete signs that Israel is preparing to withdraw , which is something we welcome .
There too , of course , outstanding matters in dispute are the water problem and the situation of the Lebanese Palestinian refugees .
My last point concerns the future Palestinian State .
This may be proclaimed in the course of this year , with or without Israel ' s support .
The Barak government has given to understand that it intends to conclude a peace agreement with a state as the other party .
Even if negotiations are not completed by September of this year , there is nothing in the relevant treaties to prevent a Palestinian state from being proclaimed after that date .
This is something to which we all want to contribute .
Mr President , I would like to refer , firstly and above all , to the joint resolution which will be laid down to round off this debate .
The recent negotiations are already an important step towards a permanent peace in the Middle East .
It is , therefore , regrettable that these peace talks have been suspended for the time being .
Indeed , both parties will need to make huge efforts .
Lasting peace in the region can only be achieved by means of an agreement which guarantees the security of the Israeli borders , as well as Syria ' s integrity .
It is also necessary to initiate permanent diplomatic relations and to establish constant dialogue .
Nevertheless , it is still regrettable that the European Union , one of the most important financial donors , is still unable to play a major political role in the peace process .
This peace process in the Middle East is one of the priorities of the European Union ' s common foreign and security policy .
This is where Mr Solana , the High Representative to the Council , could come into his own .
The Commission and Member States also have to be encouraged to support projects which can help develop understanding and partnership between the different nations in the region .
I should also draw your attention to the significance of the Barcelona process which should have a beneficial impact on regional cooperation .
In this respect , we support Libya ' s participation , provided that it recognises human rights , renounces support for terrorists and fully supports the peace process .
There are still , needless to say , many unresolved problems and unanswered questions , also involving the Palestinians .
Mr President , it is pleasing that , despite certain delays and problems , the peace negotiations are going on both between Israel and Palestine and between Israel and Syria .
The moment of truth is approaching .
Is Israel prepared to comply with the UN ' s resolutions and , in exchange for peace and security , hand back the Arab areas which were conquered in 1967 ?
Will Israel let Palestinian refugees return or be given compensation ?
Will Israel share Jerusalem and the water of the River Jordan ?
Will a free Palestine be a truly democratic state and , therefore , reliable as a partner in peace ?
Will Syria fully accept Israel ' s existence and introduce democracy and the rule of law ?
The fact that the main responsibility for the peace process lies with the occupying country , Israel , does not prevent the Arab partners from also having a considerable share of the responsibility .
Peace in the Middle East concerns us all , however .
It is therefore good that the EU should act as a godparent to the Palestinian state .
Against this background , I want to conclude with a remarkable story from Sweden where an international Intergovernmental Conference on Hitler ' s extermination of the Jews is being held , which is obviously a welcome initiative .
Of 47 states invited from all corners of the world , not one of them , however , is an Arab state included in the EU ' s Barcelona process .
This has been interpreted as indicating that the Arab attitude towards Israel should be regarded by Europeans as being similar to the Nazis ' anti-Semitism , which of course is completely incorrect .
The Arab world ' s criticism of Israel has been founded upon the same sort of anti-colonialism as , for example , Algeria ' s fight for freedom against France .
But today , Egypt , Jordan and Palestine have peace treaties with Israel .
I therefore wonder whether Commissioner Patten does not agree with me that it would have been only right and proper to have invited at least one Arab state to the holocaust conference in Stockholm .
I refer principally to the Palestine-Israel question , but the same also applies to the territories which have been occupied in the Golan since 1967 and in southern Lebanon since 1982 .
However , Israel is not the only country concerned with security .
Between the period when the Oslo Agreement was signed and 17 October 1999 , 174 000 dunams of land were confiscated , 8 462 of which have been taken under Mr Barak ' s Government .
Trees have been uprooted , houses are still being demolished and , above all , water supplies have been reduced or refused , especially in East Jerusalem , while the settlements continue and are growing constantly .
Nevertheless , there is no doubt that with the election of the new government , positive steps have been taken : negotiations , at least , have resumed .
But in the Middle East , there can be no stable and lasting peace if the Palestinians do not have their own state , if they cannot move freely within their own territory .
All the international community has to do is implement Resolutions 332 , 248 , 245 and 194 .
We are concerned by the deferment of the building of relations with Syria , as well as Mr Barak ' s decision to postpone the withdrawal of the Israeli army and the Sharm el  -Sheikh agreements .
We feel it is extremely important for the European Union to play a political role in negotiations which matches its economic aid .
We cannot be content with a role backstage . We must be leading protagonists while staying off a collision course with the United States , as Minister Gama said .
I was deeply disappointed at the news this week that the peace talks between Israel and Syria had been suspended .
I very much hope that a compromise can be reached to overcome this so that the peace negotiations can be resumed at a very early date .
Nevertheless , we cannot deny that some positive political progress has been made in the Middle East of late .
Political leaders must show real courage to put in place a framework which can lead to an overall peace settlement within the Middle East .
I know that if agreement can be reached between Syria and Israel , the Israeli Prime Minister will still face real opposition to any new agreement with Syria in any future referendum .
The settlers at the Golan Heights will demand to be compensated and there will have to be guarantees of security .
If Syria would be willing to offer concessions on the security question then the prospects of a successful resolution to the Israel / Syria question might be promising .
On the issue of Palestine , I recognise that there are still some difficulties with regard to the implementation of some aspects of the Wye Agreement .
The key problem areas at the moment include the difficulties of redeployment , as well as the transfer of territories .
The low level of releases of Palestinian prisoners and the fact that the Israeli Government appears to intend halting implementation of building permits already granted , as well as not approving new ones , pose further obstacles .
These issues have clearly been holding up progress on the permanent status negotiations , although , I believe , these talks will not be held up indefinitely .
Currently , both sides seem to have accepted that nothing will be agreed until everything is agreed .
Mr President , the various motions for resolutions tabled in Parliament more or less represent the situation in the Middle East .
There are those who are in favour of new agreements between Israel and Syria , but only a few focus on the real problem at the heart of the Middle East issue .
Indeed , the time has come to resolve a central problem for global stability .
Mr President , the Israeli author , Amos Oz , managed to capture very aptly the icy atmosphere at the negotiating table between the Israelis and Syrians recently .
He was under the impression that the Syrians thought that , in exchange for the Golan Heights , all they had to do was to fax the Israelis a receipt .
Oz ' s impression is also echoed in the Israeli press .
It contrasts Prime Minister Barak ' s personal peace efforts and the distant attitude , even physical absence , of the strong man of Damascus , President Assad , at the negotiations in the United States .
Surely Assad would be Barak ' s ideal negotiating partner and not the Foreign Affairs Minister .
And the Israelis were certainly not impressed by the discourteous behaviour of Minister Farouk al-Shara in Shepherdstown .
His behaviour towards Prime Minister Ehud Barak was plainly insulting .
But why pay attention to such detail as basic diplomatic niceties in the face of a tough negotiation process over territory ?
Well , the Syrians are quite possibly cutting off their nose to spite their face .
At the end of the day , Israeli voters can still express an opinion on the return of the Golan .
All the resolutions submitted express the sincere wish for greater European involvement in the peace process .
I would like to finish off by asking the European Council and Commission a question . How accurate are the press reports which state that the Portuguese Presidency has already pledged troops as a peacekeeping force in the Golan ?
The suspension of the talks between Syria and Israel is not the only delay affecting the peace process in the Middle East .
The application of the framework agreement between the Palestinian authorities and Israel is also suspended at the moment .
What can the European Union do in these circumstances ?
Unfortunately , very little .
When we consider that a conference will soon be held in Moscow , it becomes clear that the European Union ' s presence in this peace process is somewhat pitiful .
I would like to insist to the Portuguese Presidency that we must play a greater role , that it is time to take over and to secure greater participation for the European Union in this process .
First , I believe that we can welcome the agreement between Israel and the Palestinian authorities .
But we have enough agreements now : Oslo , Wye Plantation , Sharm el-Sheikh .
We have enough agreements ; they just need to be implemented .
However , in this regard I share Mr Salafranca ' s scepticism when he says that there has been bad news from Israel this week , namely that the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum cannot be implemented within the set timeframe .
My second point concerns the resumption of negotiations between Syria and Israel .
I consider this to be very encouraging news .
But we have also learned this week that Mr Barak will not be travelling to Washington and that the negotiations cannot therefore be continued .
I should like to make it quite clear : if the Golan Heights are returned to Syria , the problem in this region will be solved .
On the question of the referendum which various Members have referred to : we must consider if a referendum always needs to be held in order to honour obligations under international law and under the law of nations .
That would be a similar situation .
My third and last point concerns the role of the European Union .
I should really like to stress the excellent role which Mr Moratinos ' special mission has played in the region and the funding which we have provided there , Commissioner Patten .
You know that you will always have our support here in Parliament , and that includes your proposal , and we shall be behind you when the time comes to finance it .
Then we will have played the role which is commensurate with our participation and our contribution .
This hope is contained in our motion for a resolution . We hope for a fair and balanced agreement based on respect for sovereignties and the right to live securely within safe and recognised borders .
All the foreign troops , including therefore the Syrian forces , must withdraw from Lebanon in accordance with Resolution 520 of the United Nations Security Council .
Dare we hope for an Israeli withdrawal from South Lebanon by July 2000 , the date promised by Ehud Barak ?
Dare we hope for a dual peace agreement between Israel and its neighbours to the north ?
We really hope and believe so .
Never have the parties been so determined .
One fundamental point to be stressed is the balance which must be expressed in the message from Europe and which must exist between the people . There must also be a political balance between the participants in the negotiations .
Following the attack in Hadera on Monday , we must repeat our condemnation of any form of terrorism .
In terms of balance , or should I say imbalance , I must add that it is to be regretted that Europe is still playing a minor political role in resolving this conflict .
At midday , Mr Gama referred to the financial and commercial support provided by Europe to the region .
Despite everything , we are being forced to recognise that the resumption of the peace process is largely due to the work of Washington .
Like other Arab countries before them , the Syrians chose the Americans to sponsor the negotiations .
This was the choice also made by Israel where Europe suffers from a partisan public image , and this is a fact , not a judgement .
Although it is difficult for Europe to speak with one voice about the peace process , it can and must speak in the same spirit of confidence and solidarity .
Area of Freedom , Security and Justice
Mr President , 1999 was the year of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam , of the communitisation of the Schengen Agreement and of the Extraordinary Tampere Council .
These have been the most important moments in the Council ' s expression of its political will to establish an area of freedom , security and justice in the European Union .
It has also reached a political agreement - and we congratulate them on this - on the initial proposals for civil cooperation .
This has been the year in which policies on justice and home affairs have been provided with a Community framework .
They have been put into the hands of a single Commissioner , Mr Antonio Vitorino , and we congratulate them on this as well .
It is as if the Council had more than one face and two hands and what one signs up to , the other begrudges .
Despite all the commitments made at the highest level , the Council did not manage to take the decisions which it had envisaged .
Programmes multiply and overlap and there is no way of ascertaining levels of implementation and effectiveness or , at least , this Parliament is unable to do so .
We have presented the Council with a series of questions and I know that it is the will of the Portuguese Presidency to answer each and every one of them .
We hope that this presidency will mark the beginning of a change of attitude on the part of the Council towards this Parliament .
I said that there was no consistency between the decisions taken by the Council and the policies actually carried out .
There are doubts in my Group and doubts also persist in this House , for example , about something which should be good news : the incorporation of the Schengen Agreement into the Community framework .
Schengen has been incorporated , as we said earlier , into the acquis , but it has been done with very little transparency .
The same is true with regard to immigration policy .
We have amused ourselves with a pile of reports , but we have no idea what has happened to these initiatives ; they have disappeared .
We hope that 2000 will be the year for action , in the same way that 1999 was the year for expectations .
We hope that the Council will also make an effort to subject itself to the control of this Parliament .
The Council has decided that justice and home affairs policy must form part of the structure of the Union .
The Council can act in accordance with Parliament ' s decisions , or it can continue to miserably begrudge its association with the other institutions in this vitally important project .
If it chooses the second approach , it must be aware that this presents risks and that it will weaken the basis on which the area of freedom , security and justice is built .
Alternatively , it could accept the offer of an agreement amongst the institutions , in order to move forward in another way .
Fulfil your obligations to Parliament in a generous spirit , thus preparing for the future .
Madam President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , it is rather moving for me to return to this House in my capacity as a Member of the Council .
So it is with some pride and satisfaction that I find myself here and able to meet up again with some of my colleagues from those days who are still in this House .
We gave an early signal when , before the start of the Portuguese Presidency , we met with the President and Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs in Brussels .
( Applause )
and whenever the committee thinks fit , and the Chairman requests it , I myself or my colleague , the Minister for Justice , will come to Brussels to take part in the work of the meeting .
Furthermore , I would like to say that the Council believes that 1999 was an important year in the field of justice and home affairs .
Cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs was notable for the significant changes wrought by the Treaty of Amsterdam and , as a consequence , for the incorporation of Schengen into the Community framework .
The German Presidency had an important task in this respect in achieving the transition from the Maastricht system to the Amsterdam system .
Then there was the launching of Europol soon after the start of the Finnish Presidency , on 1 July 1999 .
There was also a third notable event : the Tampere Summit , a European Council devoted exclusively to justice and home affairs .
The point that the Portuguese Presidency wishes to reiterate here is that we intend to keep issues connected with the area of freedom , security and justice at the top of the presidency ' s political agenda .
The Secretary-General of the Council has published a collection of documents covering the entire Schengen acquis , pending publication in the Official Journal once all the translations are available .
This collection is , at present , available in six languages and the remaining translations are nearing completion .
Another issue I wish to raise concerns programmes in the field of immigration and asylum and how they apply to the CEECs .
In March 1998 , the Council adopted the Odysseus programme , a programme of training , exchanges and cooperation in the fields of policy on asylum , immigration and crossing of external borders .
It applies to the fifteen Member States of the Union and provides for applicant countries , and possibly third countries also , to be associated with it .
This programme covers the period 1998 to 2002 , and the reference amount for its implementation is EUR 12 million .
Applicant countries can be associated with projects selected by the management committee as long as this complies with the objectives of the programme .
The financial envelope envisaged for 2000 is EUR 3 million .
Under the 1999 programme , the Commission received 80 applications for finance , totalling EUR 7.5 million , against a budget for 1999 of EUR 3 million .
The Commission proposed support for 35 projects , of which 12 were for EUR 50 000 and 23 for amounts over EUR 50 000 .
With regard to the OISIN programme , and I am now referring to the 1997 budget year , projects were adopted for seminars , training , exchanges of officials , research and studies , and operational actions .
Of 62 projects in all , seven included applicant countries .
As regards SIS , the Schengen Information System , I am pleased to report that the Member States were very positive about its operation and use .
The increase in the number of positive results demonstrates the efficiency of the system and there is a continuing increase in the number of reports .
Mrs Terrn i Cus also mentioned an interinstitutional agreement .
( Sustained applause )
And I must not forget the Finnish Presidency ' s proposal for a Council decision which is being considered in the Multi-disciplinary Group .
Our relations with third countries represent another important aspect of the fight against organised crime .
Another area is EU involvement in the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime and its various protocols , and in the conventions being prepared in the framework of the Council of Europe , in particular on cyber crime .
Still on judicial cooperation , considerable progress has been made on the legal protection of the euro , and the European Parliament is being consulted on a framework decision which is of fundamental strategic importance .
The French Presidency has passed an important working document to us which sets out various scenarios for addressing and resolving the issues of democratic control and judicial control of Europol .
For this reason , it is essential that the Council ' s debates on the future of Europol and Eurojust should be conducted in parallel , so that conclusions can be reached in parallel also .
We are familiar with Parliament ' s views and we know that Parliament is aware of the views of the Council ' s legal advisers .
In this first speech , I would like to share with Parliament the Commission ' s view of the most important events in 1999 .
I believe that I can say with conviction and also with satisfaction that 1999 was both a turning point and a year of consolidation by the Union on issues of freedom , security and justice .
This project is not so much a project of the institutions as a project of the citizens of our common Union .
The Union ' s commitment to establishing an area of freedom , security and justice was confirmed at Tampere .
1999 was also marked by the German Presidency ' s initiative to draw up a European Charter of Fundamental Rights .
In addition to these events , I would like to remind Parliament of some items that were approved in 1999 .
The Commission made an active contribution to the work of the High Level Group on Asylum and Migration , and ultimately , in December , it presented a proposal aimed at establishing a European refugee fund .
We also presented a proposal for a decision on combating fraud and forgery of non-cash means of payment .
In the field of European Union legislation on combating financial crime , the Commission presented a proposal for an amended directive on money laundering .
In 1999 , the Commission also presented its contribution towards a European action plan to combat drugs , which underpins the strategy approved by the Helsinki European Council .
In the coming weeks , I shall be making a tour of capitals to sound out the opinions of the various ministers for justice and home affairs .
I hope to have a debate with the European Parliament and with civil society on this scoreboard project .
And we hope , during the Portuguese Presidency , to present the final version to the Justice and Home Affairs Council , taking account of the soundings that I have just mentioned .
It is my intention that this scoreboard should become an instrument providing political and strategic guidance to all the institutions , and that it should also be an instrument for public scrutiny .
I also intend to continue discussions on the preparation of specific common procedural rules for simplifying and speeding up cross-border judicial proceedings relating to small commercial and consumer claims , alimony claims and non-contested claims .
As a follow-up to the Tampere and Helsinki conclusions , the Commission will be presenting its contribution to the preparation of a European Union strategy to combat organised crime .
We will be organising and supporting actions including , in particular , the debate on the need for a legislative programme on implementing mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters .
The Commission will also support the presidency ' s efforts to clarify the judicial framework and the framework for police and judicial administrative cooperation in the fight against money laundering , an eminently cross-pillar issue .
We are also preparing a communication to instigate a debate on means of ensuring greater security in the information and knowledge society and in combating computer crime .
The year 2000 also marks the start of the implementation of the European Union Drugs Strategy 2000-2004 .
In this field the Commission , in conjunction with the Portuguese Presidency and the European Parliament , will give its full support to the Interinstitutional Conference to be held on drugs in February .
The recent restoring of certain internal border controls leads me to believe that we need a detailed analysis of the conditions for adopting a legislative instrument based on Article 62 of the Treaty .
Lastly , I would like to state once again that the Commission intends to be in the pole position in presenting proposals for implementing the Treaty of Amsterdam .
I hope that the Commission and the Council can reach agreement on their respective roles in exercising their right to initiatives and in carrying forward the legislative process itself .
As I have told Parliament , the task before us is immense and ambitious , and the Commission needs to have the necessary human resources to respond to this challenge .
Minister Gomes , I have , of course , heard what you have said and I hope that cooperation will clearly improve in this respect during the Portuguese Presidency .
I should like to raise three points which for us , as Members of the PPE Group , must be focal points when such an area is created .
First : a common asylum law must be created and the burden of absorbing refugees must be distributed .
The Council must start by at long last ensuring that EURODAC is adopted in order to create the basic requirement for classifying asylum seekers .
As far as a European asylum law is concerned , a start was in fact made at Vienna and Tampere .
Unfortunately , however , it has highlighted the difficulties rather than proposing solutions .
I therefore call on the Council representatives to look beyond their national boundaries and bring about a uniform asylum procedure for the whole Union .
Similarly , it cannot be right for just a few Member States willing to provide help to bear the entire burden of refugee misery on our continent .
Agreement on burden sharing must therefore be at the top of the agenda .
Secondly : the introduction of a Europe-wide fight against organised crime , including by Europol and Eurojust .
The planned introduction of Eurojust is one of our significant successes from Tampere and must now be implemented forthwith .
We welcome the fact that Europol has finally been able to start work .
We are not just calling for more control , and more control over Europol ; our motto here is " Less is sometimes more ! "
With most of Europol employees currently engaged in self-control for the purposes of data protection laws and questions being asked by 15 national parliaments , we may have a great deal of control , but it is inefficient control .
We want less confusing control and more parliamentary control by the European Parliament , without hampering the work of Europol .
At the same time , we support the establishment of a European police academy as suggested in Tampere as a step in the right direction .
Thirdly : the extension to Parliament ' s rights in this context .
There is therefore an urgent need to grant Parliament codecision rights in this respect and , as we have already said , to strengthen the principle of democratic control .
We want an area of freedom , security and justice for the citizens of Europe , not against them .
Mr President , I have nothing further to say to the Council .
The previous speaker has quoted me from the last committee meeting and said it all !
Why does the Council find it so hard to work with us in creating an area of freedom , security and justice ?
I find this question more and more worrying .
Allow me to try and elucidate it a little from my point of view .
The establishment of an area of freedom , security and justice hovers at the interface between the constituent elements of national sovereignty .
So we have to draw our conclusions and say that we need legal and organisational communitisation of the instruments available .
As a result , the governments which need to do this and which recognise that need , also realise that , in implementing this , they are taking away their own powers .
Then there is the European Parliament , which is also complicated .
It has not quite taken off in the European Parliament and the Council meets behind closed doors .
If the establishment of an area of freedom , security and justice is kept secret , then we shall not win the citizens over to it .
In other words , the stability of democracy is at stake if we discuss it .
This is why I frequently get so worked up , but not over the Council of Ministers .
Generally , they too are elected Members of Parliament : Mr Gomes , Mr Costa , Commissioner Vitorino , in principle we are all in the same boat .
However , I should like to make an appeal to the Council apparatchiks .
The following principle applies : He who prepares decisions , in this case the Council apparatchiks , anticipates the decisions , which is why the Council apparatchiks should demonstrate more democratic spirit .
I should just like to mention another aspect briefly because I do not have much time .
Scoreboard sounds like skateboard in German .
I say therefore that we need a timetable which stipulates what must be implemented , when and by whom .
This Vitorino plan is what we need : clear , precise projects with a clear , defined timetable .
Mr Vitorino , whom I would like to thank for his speech , can give us that , provided that he has the necessary financial and human resources .
Let us give him those resources , then he can get on with his job and we all stand to gain .
I warmly welcome the fact that the Portuguese Presidency is making justice and home affairs one of its top priorities or jewels in the crown .
I was also encouraged by Commissioner Patten ' s comments this morning about a rapid reaction fund for security crises .
Perhaps that will end scandals like the failure of states to deploy in Kosovo the police they promised .
I just want to highlight three areas among many where we need quick progress .
The first is asylum .
It is essential to establish a single European system , but one based on fairness , full respect for the Geneva Convention and decent reception conditions , including an end to routine detention .
Decisions on asylum should take months - not years .
Let our citizens know that our common policies in justice and home affairs are about freedom , not just about repression .
The last area I want to mention is convergence of civil and criminal justice systems .
Eurosceptics claim that this is a threat to sovereignty , the end of the nation-state , and so on .
Arrested and released in Madrid , he is now being extradited after arrest in Lisbon .
Whatever the Eurosceptics say , it is in all our interests to get cooperation in such matters .
Mr President , all I can say about 1999 is this : how wonderful to feel the Portuguese summer after the Finnish winter .
I hope that it works out .
The Tampere Summit was certainly an important milestone in 1999 for Europe , and for the area of freedom , security and justice in particular .
Numerous questions are still outstanding .
Answers are still awaited .
Since Tampere , there has been an imbalance between positive action and mere declarations of intent .
Regulations on nationality and the integration of people from third countries are still outstanding .
On the other hand , quite specific action has been called for on the subject of safety of life .
The creation of a Charter of Fundamental Rights will be one of the important projects in the immediate future .
However , it is difficult to predict what the content of this charter will be and how it will be implemented legally when you think of the people who are not currently citizens of the Union .
The Europol agreement has now officially entered into force .
In Tampere , the question of granting operational powers was discussed .
We continue to demand a review of the agreement in order to incorporate better parliamentary and judicial control .
The agreement also attracts criticism with regard to EURODAC .
Parliament has amended the contractual text .
Care must be taken to ensure that the Council complies with Parliament ' s modus operandi .
Unfortunately , no initiatives have yet materialised regarding other matters and we still await them .
Europe as an area of freedom , security and justice has so far been an area with no clear regulation in important sectors .
And yet we owe this to the citizens of Europe .
Having listened to the justice and home affairs ministers , I am optimistic and I am assuming that we will succeed in the next six months .
I believe that the Portuguese Presidency can contribute positively to this .
We are all aware of the enormous expectations of our people with regard to freedom , security and justice , particularly social justice .
Yet their lack of interest and involvement and sometimes even their distaste for all things political requires us to take specific action to tackle their problems .
This is the sine qua non condition for reconciling the popular and political spheres .
For Europe to become the symbol of peace and fraternity , we need a bold and generous policy to come to the aid of the most disadvantaged .
A proper plan for fighting unemployment must be established for this is the scourge which is allowing the rise of racism , xenophobia , nationalism and extreme-right racist movements .
We should remember that the most disadvantaged include immigrants and refugees .
The virtually systematic conditions of detention and the criminalisation of asylum-seekers are no longer acceptable .
All asylum-seekers must be entitled to a fair hearing and an appeal with suspensory effect .
Last week , and somewhat by chance , I witnessed , at Roissy airport , a scene of rare violence in which two young women , admittedly illegal immigrants , were being returned to Conakry .
They were treated like the worst criminals .
They were stripped naked and dragged along the floor by their hair , surrounded by a horde of state security police .
The Portuguese Presidency must put an end to this type of barbaric behaviour .
Our role should be to accompany , reassure and assist those who are fleeing dictatorships .
The Commission has proposed creating a European fund for refugees to which Parliament was favourably disposed .
Instead of all this waffling about the budget granted to this fund , we could take the decision to set this up .
The Presidency and the Council can realise what was incomprehensibly rejected in Tampere , even though this summit provided an important basis .
Likewise , we cannot simply record the rise in xenophobic feelings in Europe and the increasingly common discrimination without taking wide-ranging action .
The laws against racism must be harmonised .
What direction do you intend to give to Article 13 of the EC Treaty ?
What do you intend to do to promote equal treatment in wages for men and women ?
How do you aim to eradicate homophobia , racism and sexism ?
We must take the best from each of our countries .
In more general terms , this Presidency must start to change the behaviour and interaction of our people with minority groups and immigrants .
Immigration is too often a synonym for insecurity and violence and purely repressive responses .
What action do you intend to take to enhance the place of immigrants in our society and to guarantee proper protection for asylum-seekers ?
Mr President , there is a great lack of transparency in the area of security , freedom and justice .
The European Union is an economic powerhouse but we are not in a position to pontificate when it comes to our treatment of refugees .
The level of racism in our society is terrifying .
Racism in Ireland is endemic .
It has been a relative shock to our political leaders to find we must now take a share of the refugees that have been coming into the European Union for a long time .
We are coming from behind in dealing with the issue and the government is doing its utmost to catch up .
There is a willingness but fear pervades , and to assuage this fear we must find political and religious leadership not only in Ireland but throughout the European Union .
And our current EU mantra is AFSJ : Area for Freedom , Security and Justice .
Behind this lies another ambition on the part of the Commission and of the Council and of the overwhelming majority of this House , namely to introduce such an area .
And who is not in favour of security , freedom and justice ?
The problem is just that this is not something the EU can introduce by means of legislative decrees and other supranational resolutions .
Freedom , security and justice are the root system of any society , reflecting its history , corporate experience and political development .
A system of this kind is not something the EU can introduce without society ' s sustaining damage as a result .
But it is precisely here that we find the real rationale behind the mantra concerning security , freedom and justice .
The agenda is not designed to secure justice for the citizen .
That is already secured by means of the various national legal systems .
The agenda is designed to transfer vital parts of society ' s criminal law , policy on crime and administration of justice to the EU ' s control .
It is concerned with increased integration which , as part of a duplicitous package , involves increased repression and control .
You just have to think of all the resolutions concerning Fort Europa , Schengen , Eurodac etc . Any democrat can spot two key problems .
First of all , the initiatives which have been planned are completely unrealistic .
How is it envisaged that the EU ' s institutions , which are already stretched well beyond their capacity , can bring the ambitious projects concerned to fruition ?
Think of last year ' s deadly criticism of the Commission ' s lack of propriety , ethics and accountability .
It also , of course , finds indirect expression in the question .
But , secondly , the projects will put a strain on , indeed will be injurious to , the national democracies .
As long as the EU revolved around the internal market , only the body was being attacked .
Now , it is the soul .
Mr President , today the people of Northern Ireland see a strange irony .
Let me just look at the figures from the day that the agreement was signed .
In 1998 , we had 55 murders .
In 1999 , we had 7 murders and that does not include the Omagh bomb where 29 were killed and 300 injured .
Between 1998 and 1999 , loyalists assaulted and shot 123 people , while republicans assaulted and shot 93 people .
Charges brought against loyalists in 1999 totalled 193 , while those against republicans totalled 97 .
Mr President , that situation cannot continue and needs remedying .
Mr President , the Treaty of Amsterdam has set an important objective for the Union .
The recent laws on aliens adopted in my country , Spain , and in Belgium , are a reminder that there is an urgent need for the communitisation of immigration policy .
My third and final point relates to the external activities of the Union in the field of immigration and asylum .
We must not and cannot give the impression that the Union exclusively wishes to defend itself from an avalanche of refugees and economic migrants .
Finally , in relation to the Charter of Fundamental Rights , the citizens of Europe need to have a vision of citizenship .
The Euro , employment , even security , are not enough .
They need a ' European soul ' , as a distinguished Spanish professor once said .
Mr President , unlike some of the previous speakers , I want to go back to the words of our Portuguese ministers and Mr Vitorino .
This trio 's words were like music to our ears as Mr Ceyhun has said .
As with all music it needs to be a fine tune and properly orchestrated .
Many of us of here are very optimistic about the next six months .
The tune that will be played will be one that the people of Europe will be listening to and they will want to hear the right sort of tune .
As described this afternoon it will go a long way towards drowning out some of the unpleasant tunes we heard during the European election and over the last few months .
The Amsterdam Treaty and the Tampere Council built on this project for an area of freedom , security and justice in the European Union .
One area though is extremely important , and this House must be involved in it : namely scrutiny .
And we must make certain that the details are applicable , appropriate and relevant to the different countries .
I should like to draw attention to some of the aspects of the resolutions before us this afternoon , one or two of which were referred to earlier on .
I welcome the movement towards the recognition of judicial systems in the various countries and the cooperation on crime .
That is an area that European citizens will respond to and will be happy about .
But the Commission and Council must know that there are many people in this House who have reservations about the Eurodac system , for example .
Mr Schulz said earlier on that he was not certain about the definition of ' scoreboard ' .
Anyone who is English or British or follows cricket knows what a scoreboard is .
A scoreboard tells people the score ; it has to be up-to-date and it has to be clear and visible .
I am sure that Commissioner Vitorino will make certain that is so .
At the end of six months I hope that the music is still playing and that the European people are still listening .
I would like to make three brief points .
The first is that we need a mature dialogue between the Council and the European Parliament .
Let us stop the shadow-boxing .
Let us drop the elaborate charades and let us respect the duties that the Treaties impose on us and the timescales allowed for full democratic debate .
Involve us please in your discussions on both policy and process .
Let us not pretend that national parliaments are able to exercise effective democratic control of government activities in this area .
My second point is that we need a properly resourced Commission .
We have established a new Directorate-General , yet it has only 70 people all told .
There is an agreement to double this number , but I understand that , so far , not a single new person has arrived .
We are setting the Commission a massive task , not least in the drawing up of the scoreboard .
The Council and Parliament must work together to provide the resources that the Commission needs .
Finally , on the content of the debate , I welcome the fact that the presidency has put the area of freedom , security and justice at the top of its agenda .
All good things come in threes , especially in our policy area .
Two hundred years ago it was liberty , equality and fraternity , and things went along very well until the governments of the left raised equality above the others .
Although the main achievements in the construction of an area of freedom , security and justice should be mentioned , we must remember that there is still room for progress .
The role of the Court of Justice is still too limited and communitisation is incomplete .
The unilateral decision by Belgium to re-establish border controls is a clear illustration of this .
The total lack of progress in European citizenship and the political rights of all European residents is to be regretted .
Although action plans established by the high-level working group aim to limit migratory flows in the future , these plans do nothing to improve human rights , civil liberties and the economic situation in the countries concerned .
We know that readmission clauses are included in the cooperation and association agreements . Yet these represent a serious threat to the principle of ' non-refoulement ' [ no turning back ] .
Furthermore , it should be noted that these provisions were adopted within the Council by a procedure without debate and without consulting Parliament .
However , the main concern remains ...
( The President cut the speaker off )
Mr President , I would like to join my colleagues in welcoming the representatives of the Council as well as the Commissioner .
I thank them for their statements to the House .
I look to the Portuguese Presidency in particular to build on some of the tremendous work which was done by the Finnish Presidency in bringing forward coordinated plans and action between the Member States .
We already have , on the international side , plans in place to combat drug trafficking , money laundering and so on .
This is a Belgian government measure which flies in the face of the Schengen Treaty .
I lodged a written complaint on the same subject to Commissioner Vitorino on 23 December .
Mr President , esteemed gentlemen from Portugal , especially the Council representatives , you face great expectations on our part .
I should like to give you an example of one way in which you can meet these expectations relatively quickly in at least one small segment .
I refer to Eurodac .
We voted clearly in favour of the introduction of this instrument , together with an implementation committee , which would be attached to the Commission in just the same way that a corresponding database would be .
We were of the opinion that EURODAC was becoming a reality .
Even in Tampere , we were of the opinion that Eurodac was becoming a reality .
This is a perfect example of the sort of work we do not want to see .
My urgent request on behalf of the Group is that you do everything to ensure that Eurodac is implemented immediately as an instrument to fight asylum abuse and illegality and as an instrument to speed up asylum procedures .
If you tell us today how you wish to proceed , you will be doing us a great service .
I refer in particular to the Council and to the inertia of the Member States in implementing the decisions they had jointly made .
From what I have said , it must be obvious to you that the European Parliament is not prepared to simply play the role of observer .
Do you intend to press for a common policy for asylum and immigration ?
How do you intend to go about integrating immigrants into the Community , reuniting them with their families and recognising their rights and duties on an equal footing with those of the citizens of Europe ?
In light of this new international demographic class portrayed by experts at the UN , is it not about time you abandoned your traditional , conservative views on refugees and immigrants ?
I have great expectations for the Portuguese Presidency .
Mr President , I welcome much , indeed most , of what has been said in this debate .
But I want to add a word of caution .
There are also courts in Karlsruhe , London , Lisbon , Dublin and Edinburgh .
We must make sure that what we do makes clear sense .
We must not generate a confusion and conflict of jurisdictions about rights , for that would be the enemy of freedom , justice and security .
We need , in short , to have and to sustain the highest possible common standards and to find ways of securing these .
But we must look always to subsidiarity .
Like everybody in this House , I want freedom , justice and security .
I do not want to see these degenerate into over-centralisation , chaos and confusion .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , I would very quickly like to make one point .
Various Members raised questions about the Portuguese Presidency .
( Sustained applause )
Thank you , Minister .
The debate is closed .
Mr President , I am grateful for the Council ' s oral , and also written , reply .
Their efficiency has been truly remarkable .
I also hope that the same is done in relation to parliamentary control .
Representatives of the Council , within the next month we are going to table a motion for a resolution in this Parliament .
Question Time ( Council )
The next item is Question Time ( B5-0003 / 2000 ) .
We will examine questions to the Council .
Question No 1 by ( H-0780 / 99 ) :
Mr President , the Council wishes to point out that Turkey is a signatory to the Convention on Nuclear Safety , the objectives of which should allay the fears expressed by Mr Souladakis .
The convention , as you will be aware , also covers the prevention of accidents which have radiological effects and the limitation of such effects when incidents of this kind occur .
Thank you for your answer .
However , I would just like to add the following . Turkey is only looking to increase its energy potential by 2 % with this unit .
Nevertheless , rumour has it that it plans to buy Candu reactors of the type acquired by Pakistan and India which were used for nuclear weapons .
In this respect , the issue requires closer examination , because the sensitive situation in the Caucasus region could heighten people ' s suspicions .
Speaking as an engineer , I can tell you that we carry out tests to investigate the effects of certain risk factors in extreme circumstances .
However , we cannot carry out tests on nuclear plants which are in operation ; it is just not possible .
With this in mind , it goes without saying that nuclear plants a priori should not be built in areas prone to earthquakes .
In this respect , and because Turkey is situated on the periphery of the European Union , we should be helping it to become a more secure , peaceful and cooperative country .
That is our role and this is the point of my question .
I recognise the relevance of the arguments that Mr Souladakis has put forward .
This is , of course , a highly sensitive issue .
We understand your concerns and will certainly take account of them , particularly during the discussions that we will be having with Turkey to define that country ' s own pre-accession strategy agenda .
This question will naturally be one of our key concerns , and the European Commission will not fail to take this into account .
Thank you , Mr President and thank you President-in-Office of the Council .
I am sure the President-in-Office of the Council is a very nice man and is very kind to his wife and his children and his dog .
However , forgive me if I am a little sceptical of the reply you have just given me .
I do not believe that the statements made within the Council and the votes are available to the public immediately .
Will you write to me before the next plenary with that information ?
However , I would like to say , Mr Newton Dunn , that the results of this kind of process for transparency are quite obvious to us and we consider them to be unquestionable .
We therefore consider that the General Secretariat of the Council is at present making available to the public all essential information regarding the Council ' s functions as a legislative body .
I do not consider that the Council tried to answer my question .
I did not ask what the Council thought of the proposal which the Commission has still not tabled .
Instead , my question concerns the interpretation in principle of Article 255 of the Treaty of Amsterdam .
Does this permit legislation also to be passed concerning national laws on transparency and not only in connection with the three institutions of the European Union referred to there ?
I should like to have an answer to that question .
Does the Council consider that , on the basis of Article 255 of the Treaty , national legislation on transparency can be regulated , that is to say legislation not relating to the EU ' s institutions ?
Mr Sjstedt , the answer that I gave was the only answer possible .
Nevertheless , I would like to say that any interpretation of Article 255 of the Treaty must also be linked to the principle of subsidiarity .
At the moment , there are no concrete proposals which would allow us to make adjustments under this Article , and unless there is such a proposal , we cannot move forward on this matter .
In any event , Article 255 does not , at first sight , allow work to be done on any basis that could affect the principle of subsidiarity .
Does not the Council ' s representative think that this makes it difficult to participate in the democratic decision-making process ?
Mrs Frahm , the question that you raised is extremely important and we discussed it at great length during the last Intergovernmental Conference .
I would like to say that transparency does not only apply from the Community institutions " outwards " , it also applies between the institutions .
As a matter of fact , at the last conference , this issue was raised and discussed on several occasions .
The European Parliament will have the opportunity to take part in the preparatory group for the next Intergovernmental Conference .
The matter is still open .
I believe that the Commission ' s proposal should make provision for greater transparency in terms of the way the various institutions function , but I think that there is always room for improvement in this matter .
For our part , we are prepared to study any proposals made in this area .
It is a very important question indeed which Jonas Sjstedt and others have asked .
We have a principle of transparency in Sweden which strengthens democracy and ensures that there is a worthwhile dialogue between citizens , decision makers and authorities .
We are very anxious indeed that the EU , too , should move in this direction , and this is also stated in the Treaty of Amsterdam .
One or two years ago , Parliament adopted a report by Mrs Lw which is extremely important in this context .
The report warned that the forthcoming process would lead to restrictions upon the transparency of the Member States .
We can now see that there is perhaps some reason for this warning from Parliament .
I want to ask the Council if it understands this warning , in view of what we have now seen in the working documents from the Commission .
I listened very carefully to what Mr Seixas da Costa had to say on transparency and the Intergovernmental Conference .
It should have its own heading in the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference , which would mean widening the agenda .
Mr Dimitrakopoulos , transparency is naturally an issue of concern to the institutions .
All of this must nevertheless be done whilst respecting a broad framework - that of the overall acceptability of any solutions we may devise to achieve these three aims .
It is obvious that transparency will be a permanent fixture on the European agenda and it will , of course , feature on the agenda of this Intergovernmental Conference .
I can assure you that this is an issue which the Portuguese Presidency will keep before the Member States and the representatives of the preparatory group for the conference .
It must therefore be able to count on the support of the Members of the European Parliament , who will surely rally behind this proposal .
We will then see , at ministerial level , how we can follow this up .
As far as we are concerned , they will be .
We shall try to achieve a consensus on this matter .
Question No 5 by ( H-0785 / 99 ) :
Does the Council believe that it is permissible to consolidate future overfishing which violates the originally established TAC of 33 000 metric tonnes per year , given the current evidence for the critical state of anchovy stocks ?
What measures does the Council intend to adopt , and when , with a view to taking proper account of the critical state of anchovy stocks , the aforesaid quota transfer and the principle of relative stability ?
Mr President , the Portuguese Presidency is extremely anxious to give a comprehensive answer to this question , particularly because it broaches an issue which concerns Portugal in a positive way , and I shall explain how .
The Council is aware of the critical level of anchovy stocks in the Bay of Biscay to which Mr Ortuondo Larrea refers .
It was also stipulated that this would be revised in the light of new scientific information on preserving species , of which we hope to see examples in the first six months of this year .
As for the Southern stocks of anchovy in ICES zone IX , the TAC was fixed at 10 000 tonnes for the whole of 2000 as opposed to 13 000 tonnes in 1999 .
Fishing quota transfers between Portugal and France were reduced proportionally from 5 008 tonnes in 1999 to 3 000 tonnes in 2000 , for fishing in French waters .
I would like to state that this transfer will not increase the pressure of fishing on anchovy stocks overall , over the whole Community fishing area .
In accordance with the principle of relative stability , 90 % of stocks of anchovy in the Bay of Biscay are allocated to Spain and only 10 % to France .
Without this transfer from Portuguese waters , the level of the Bay of Biscay TAC would have to be multiplied by ten in order to grant adequate catches to France .
That is why I think that this is quite positive from Portugal ' s point of view .
This situation would obviously be even more damaging to the level of stocks than the risk referred to by Mr Ortuondo Larrea , which we also understand .
Mr President-in-Office of the Council , I must say that your comments have not satisfied me at all .
I understand that Portugal is affected by this .
Today , scientific studies show that the anchovy population in the Bay of Biscay is in danger of extinction , and now there will be measures to restrict the amount of anchovy which can be fished in that Bay .
The Court also stated that the principle of relative stability had not been violated since the anchovy quota allocated to Spain in zone VIII had been maintained at 90 % and France ' s at 10 % .
Accordingly , Mr Ortuondo Larrea , the Council reiterates its opinion that without this transfer , greater account would be taken of France ' s possibilities for anchovy fishing in the Bay of Biscay .
The Council therefore reiterates its opinion that fishing pressure would be greater and more damaging to population numbers than the solution which was eventually chosen .
In concrete terms , 3 000 tonnes represent 57.5 % of Portugal ' s fishing opportunities in 2000 against 5 008 tonnes or 73.9 % in 1999 .
These numbers represent , in our opinion and in the opinion of the Council , a real improvement in terms of conservation in comparison with the level of 80 % laid down in Council Regulation 685 / 95 .
Question No 6 by ( H-0788 / 99 ) :
The resolution also stresses that previous persecution of the Albanians cannot constitute a pretext for killings , abductions , detentions , intimidation , arson , looting , destruction of property and the taking-over of houses etc .
In the light of the above , will the Council reconsider the funding for the reconstruction of Kosovo , as requested by Parliament ?
What other practical measures will it take to put a stop to ethnic cleansing ?
Mr Alavanos , I would like to say that I have the greatest sympathy for the concern underlying the issue you have raised .
The Council has always stressed the need to seek prosecution of all those who have perpetrated such acts and of those who continue to perpetrate such acts .
It will not be tolerated , and must stop immediately .
It has been communicated explicitly and repeatedly to Kosovar leaders that international support will depend to a large extent on the way non-Albanian minorities are treated .
I think that this is an extremely important point : this sense of conditionality , which underlies the European Union ' s position , is being maintained by the Council and will continue to be maintained .
We have fully supported the efforts of the United Nations mission and the international security forces in Kosovo to prevent further outbreaks of violence against minorities and to protect the populations under threat .
KFOR and the UNMIC police consider one of their two main tasks to be preventing any form of maltreatment on the grounds of a person ' s ethnic origin .
I would like to thank Mr President-in-Office of the Council .
Today ' s political statement on this issue was very positive indeed , and one which I welcome .
However , there is some concern over the lack of progress made despite the good and honest intentions expressed by the European Union .
Unfortunately , we have recently witnessed the eradication of Serb , Romany , Turkish , and Croatian minorities in Kosovo and we are now wondering what will happen next .
The United Nation ' s , and Mr Kouchner ' s , mission in Kosovo ended in failure .
This failure is illustrated by the fact that after an entire war that was waged to put an end to ethnic cleansing , we now have ethnic cleansing from the opposite side .
And so I would like to repeat my question as to whether the Council intends to take more specific action to debate these issues with Mr Kouchner , who has a major responsibility for the situation in Kosovo today .
It is a structure to which the European Union has given as much support as it can and to which the countries of the European Union have contributed in various ways .
There is one thing , however , that we cannot deny , and that is that Mr Kouchner ' s efforts to return Kosovo ' s internal situation to normal have been extremely positive .
Therefore , the responsibility of the European Union has to be seen in a certain context .
These are questions which we should all be asking , but the forum for putting these questions is the United Nations .
Mr President , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , I heartily welcome the fact that you have said that you wish to improve structures , in the aim of improving the credibility of the authorities .
I think that we need to consider how we can best present this to the general public .
We have endeavoured to provide material help .
We have tried to defend peace by taking military action .
What is the situation now as regards efforts to include psychological criteria in this crisis area and provide the best possible support here ?
Mr Rbig , as I said , I understand your concerns very well .
I know that this is an extremely delicate issue , but we should all be questioning the logic behind this resolution and its chances of being implemented .
We advocate that it should be implemented in its entirety .
We in the Council will be trying to provide information on this matter during the Portuguese Presidency .
Mr Seixas da Costa , I totally agree with you .
The problem is not Mr Kouchner but the legal basis on which he is working , namely Resolution 1244 .
It is the failure to define this scenario which is causing or encouraging the excesses , accidents and assassinations mentioned by Mr Alavanos .
Does the Council intend to raise the question of the definitive status of Kosovo ?
Since the author is not present , Question No 7 lapses .
Question No 8 by ( H-0796 / 99 ) :
However , housing is specifically excluded .
In this regard , we should bear in mind that the ERDF also contributes to promoting sustainable rural development and to creating sustainable employment in rural areas .
Question No 9 by ( H-0798 / 99 ) :
The Portuguese Presidency also attaches importance to reinforcing food safety policy and I think that the Portuguese Foreign Minister and President-in-Office already referred to this aspect this morning .
We think that the role of food safety , specifically in terms of everything linked to public health , is one of our presidency ' s essential tasks .
It is therefore one of the priorities of our programme .
We shall be developing it in four parallel schemes , in the Agriculture Council , the Health Council , the Consumer Affairs Council and the Internal Market Council .
This is what we shall be trying to achieve during the Portuguese Presidency and we hope , at the end of it , to be able to present the result of our efforts to this House .
I thank the President-in-Office for his reply .
I completely understand your concerns , and I feel that there is a need for effort and a certain degree of consistency within the European Union itself on this issue .
We also have to think of the consequences , especially in terms of financing and compensating farmers .
Nevertheless , as you know , this issue is now in the hands of the European Commission and it will have to take this further .
The Council ' s ability to intervene in this matter is strictly limited .
Mr President , I too would like to welcome the President-in-Office to the Chamber .
I feel this is one area where Europe can play a very active role , even if only in providing the conduit for exchange of experience and best practice among the Member States .
We have no specific , concrete initiatives in this area but that does not mean that we are closed to the idea that an initiative proposed to us by NGOs in this area might be considered during our presidency .
It should be pointed out that this can only be done within the Council ' s scope for action .
Any aspect of this which may impinge on the Commission ' s right of initiative will obviously have to be done through the Commission itself .
You said that in Lisbon you intend to discuss more dynamic and competitive development .
I am beginning to feel a little worried because this may lead , partially at least , to exclusion .
I do not see how you could , with the views that you hold , provide any answers .
I would like an answer as to whether or not the Portuguese Presidency intends to do something about these matters .
You must understand that a presidency ' s ability to reverse global social or economic trends during its six months in office is actually quite limited .
I think that it is also obvious that our ability to act is linked to the Commission ' s own scope for intervening , through its right of initiative .
The second is to create internationally competitive conditions , which will enable us to improve the economic fabric of the European Union , and this will have positive knock-on effects on the problems of social exclusion .
The Portuguese Presidency does not have a magic wand with which it can , in six months , resolve problems that have always existed .
We will try to move these strategies forward as much as possible during our presidency .
Question No 12 by ( H-0801 / 99 ) :
Subject : Portuguese Presidency and development policy Will the President-in-Office of the Council make a statement on the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency with regard to development policy , the Convention of Lom and tackling famine situations ?
I would like to thank the presidency for the comprehensive answer to my question , and indeed the Minister who spoke to the Committee on Development last week in Brussels outlining the position .
But there are some questions still outstanding .
There does not seem to be any emphasis on the fight against AIDS in the programme .
The situation of AIDS in Africa now is so serious that more people are dying of AIDS than are dying in conflict .
I hope that the Minister will take some time to pursue that particular issue .
Medicines are available in the United States but the United States is not making them cheap enough for the people in Africa .
At the same time , there is a war going on between Eritrea and Ethiopia and the armaments industry in Europe is not short in sending guns , after which we will send the bread .
First of all , Mr Andrews , you must understand that I do not agree with your interpretation of my colleague ' s speech during the meeting of the Committee on Development .
There is no contradiction between our two positions , quite the opposite .
As you can understand , it would be easy to do so .
All we would have to do is get a directory of development and put all the items in our programme , one after the other .
We must understand that there are limitations on what we can achieve , particularly in terms of managing national indicative programmes .
Indeed , in terms of development aid policy , I think that Europe has absolutely nothing to worry about for the simple reason that our behaviour in this area compares very favourably with that of the United States .
Is the Council aware of the social problems caused by the export of food by the EU to developing countries at prices below the cost of production ?
Does the presidency intend to do anything about this ?
Since the author is not present , Question No 13 lapses .
I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council , and I would personally like to welcome him and the Portuguese Presidency .
Please allow me to remark on how well-versed and well-informed he is on European affairs .
Unfortunately , in my case , he did not provide what I would call a satisfactory answer .
Since the Council recognises the fact that culture is a major economic asset , it should , in my view , demonstrate this in practice .
Saying that the cultural dimension is governed by the principle of subsidiarity and that it is therefore national governments who are responsible is , I am afraid , just an excuse .
This is a true example of the Council ' s indifference towards culture , despite its assurances to the contrary that it is a matter to which it attaches great importance .
I would therefore like to ask the Council if it is prepared henceforth to support culture with the same readiness as it supported bananas , hops , cows and Indian hemp .
Mr Marinos , we are not adopting a purely economic approach to managing the Portuguese Presidency , and therefore , the cultural dimension is , I am sure you will appreciate , one of our main concerns .
These cultural dimensions , however , almost always have their own economic dimension in turn , that is the level of resources which can be called on specifically to provide aid for cultural initiatives .
This is a dimension which it is difficult to go beyond within the framework of the European Union , and especially within the framework of the Council .
This is , and will continue to be , connected with developments within the World Trade Organisation .
But , Mr Marinos , in the EU context , culture is an issue which is repeatedly raised in connection with IGC agendas .
Of course , if consensus could be reached on this issue at the Intergovernmental Conference , there might eventually be progress .
It remains to be seen whether or not there is a consensus on this .
We will soon see , and for our part , we will bear in mind any suggestions on this issue .
Mr President , I join others in wishing Portugal every good wish for a successful presidency .
I notice that you said this particular issue was not currently on your agenda for the next IGC but if some people wished it , you would consider it .
Well , I , and my fellow 35 British Conservative MEPs wish it and would like you to please consider it .
I appreciate that it is a provocative question .
It is meant to provoke because there is a very serious issue here that some countries do not hold EU law in the respect which it deserves .
We have to find some way of putting pressure on such countries to do just that so we can reconnect with our citizens .
I cannot think of a better way to do it .
Can you ?
The issue is whether the European dimension will become stronger or weaker as a result of being specifically integrated into the Treaties .
Intergovernmental Conferences are a kind of event in themselves and could also be a type of Christmas tree .
It is therefore not out of the question that these issues , which crop up again and again , and which are passed from one conference to another , may be addressed .
Mr Dimitrakopoulos has the floor for a procedural motion .
I would ask him to be brief .
Mr President , I understand that I have to do this very quickly .
I liked what Mr Seixas da Costa said about Father Christmas .
In Spain they say a letter to the three kings .
I simply wish to remind you that the European Parliament has already sent a letter to the three kings through its reports .
Now the Presidency and the Council have to bring the presents which we have asked them for in our letter to the three kings .
As I suspected , it was not exactly a procedural motion , but more a closing of the debate .
We thank Mr Seixas da Costa , but he can also write his letter to the three kings .
I would merely say that the festive issue which Mr Dimitrakopoulos has raised is an extremely important one .
The problem is that in this case Father Christmas has to follow orders and therefore he can only give presents when he is authorised by others to do so .
It is not the Portuguese Presidency ' s job to hand out the presents that everyone wants , especially those that the European Parliament is asking for .
After this interesting exchange of opinions , and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure , I would like to tell you that Questions Nos 17 to 27 will be replied to in writing .
That concludes questions to the Council .
Capital tax
The next item is the joint debate on :
the oral question ( B5-0004 / 2000 ) by Mr Dsir and others , to the Council , on the Council position on the idea of a capital tax
the oral question ( B5-0005 / 2000 ) by Mr Dsir and others , to the Commission , on the Commission position on the idea of a capital tax .
The bulk of these financial transactions are purely speculative and do not involve any trade in goods or investments .
Yet the erratic movement of these massive sums of capital can , in a few hours , cause the collapse of a currency or the economy of a country , plunging its whole population into recession .
It could act as a kind of asset redistribution in a world where there is both increasing wealth and increasing poverty .
Many personalities and institutions have come out in favour of this tax such as the Brazilian President , Fernando Cardoso , the Finnish Government , the Canadian Parliament last March and also Lionel Jospin in 1995 .
This question has been debated in several national parliaments of the EU .
The motion also asks that a position document , drawn up by the Commission and Council , should be submitted before the next annual meeting of the IMF .
Europe must play a role in this new international regulation and I am extremely happy that today , with this debate and this motion , this question is now on the agenda of European construction .
Madam President , I do not have a great deal to add on this subject .
The Council has not yet discussed the possibility of introducing a tax on movements of capital as Professor Tobin suggested .
As it falls to the Commission to propose any such initiative , the Council has not yet been able to adopt a position on this issue .
Madam President , the revenue basis of the Tobin tax is said to be made up of very short-term exchange transactions .
Such transactions , according to the argument , bear very little relation to fundamental economic variables .
This has also just been underlined by Mr Dsir .
Taking into account the considerable volume of short-term financial streams , even a low nominal Tobin tax would yield respectable sums of tax revenue .
The Commission recently observed renewed interest in a global tax , such as the Tobin tax , as a means of achieving socially responsible globalisation , so to speak .
Mr Dsir too has mentioned this growing interest on all sides .
But if the Tobin tax were to be applied unilaterally in order to prevent attacks on a specific currency , then this tax could not be effective and it could harm the internal financial market .
Put more strongly , in the long term it is possible that for large numbers of funds , the Tobin tax will be evaded by shifting foreign exchange rate transactions to off-shore tax havens .
In that case , the tax could lead to a net loss of total economic prosperity .
So the Tobin tax can only be effective if there is a sufficient number of industrialised countries which are prepared to participate .
Finally , even if the Tobin tax is designed to curb speculations with currencies , there is still the risk that even non-speculative streams would be affected , and that is not the intention .
For the reasons set out above , I cannot see a good reason for introducing a European Tobin tax .
At any rate , the Commission is against any attempt to restrict capital movement within the European Union .
In more direct terms , to the extent that this measure could be deemed an indirect restriction on capital streams , this would contravene the Treaty of Rome .
The correct speculative approach , it seems to me , is to remove the real causes which lead to financial chaos , rather than attempting to suppress its symptoms by introducing obstacles to the operation of the markets .
Madam President , Commissioner , I should like once again to say a few words on the modus operandi and the ideological tactics behind this oral question .
Also because I know how many social democrats in this House share our criticism , and not just the economic and financial policy experts .
We know what the problem is : instability on the markets as the result of speculation .
But the people asking the question need to know that not every instance of instability , as the Commissioner has just so impressively told us , is the result of speculation .
The Tobin tax would not have been able to prevent the crises in the EEA in 1992 and 1993 or the crises in the south-east Asian currencies in 1997 .
In my view , and I say this quite clearly , the question is ideologically motivated rather than solution-focused .
I consider this to be the wrong way forward for several reasons .
Why do we reject the Tobin tax and consider it so questionable ?
First , and the Commissioner has also confirmed this , because it places a heavy burden on the capital markets .
Even a small tax would have serious repercussions on the capital markets , because this sort of speculation tax would reduce the profitability of investments considerably .
Secondly , speculative capital is extremely difficult to identify .
Thirdly , unless they are introduced in all countries at the same time , tax measures are easy to circumvent because there are otherwise too many loopholes .
Fourthly , technically speaking , this measure is highly impracticable and will result in a great deal of bureaucracy and administration and be impossible to control .
The measure which we should be taking is part of the resolution before us here today .
We need stronger banking supervision .
We need to clarify the liability for transactions .
We need a framework of regulations at international level .
We need to examine national laws in order to check that they comply with the rules of the Basle committee and how the dissemination of these rules can be stepped up .
I have a serious problem with one of the central points of this resolution which we cannot accept as it stands . I refer to point 9 .
Having listened to the Commissioner just now , we know that the Commission ' s knowledge of the facts will result in a ' no ' to the Tobin tax .
The capital markets do not want uncertainty from us , they want clarity ; which is why we reject point 9 and call for a split vote .
Madam President , the debate on a tax on short-term financial actions is not a new one .
We have been discussing the Tobin tax proposal for twenty years and yet the question is still topical because we need really concrete and honest answers based on careful studies .
We need to know just how desirable and feasible a tax on short-term transactions really is .
We must ask what instruments we can use in order to create the order here which has been missing in the past .
It is therefore high time that we thought both about supervisory regulations and about transparency on the financial markets and their information .
It is important that we know who the actors are and what their credit rating is .
We must also ask if there is not a need for fiscal justice .
I will have to repeat these arguments , modestly , in this intervention , because the same issue has arisen once again .
Firstly , there is no evidence that the tax on international capital movements could reduce the dangers of volatility and instability in the international markets .
Furthermore , the idea of obtaining resources to apply them to the more economically needy countries presents such complexity , when we consider their application in practice , that it appears simply impossible .
This is a false debate whose aim is purely political , and has no basis or technical viability .
I suppose that the first thing they say will be , ' let us see whether you are capable of reaching a fiscal agreement within the Union ' .
In itself , globalisation is positive .
The economy has never grown so much nor favoured so many countries on a global level .
This is due to progressive opening up and greater freedom in the international trade in goods and services and also a greater capacity for adequate movement of capital .
Any analysis of economic development in recent years , if objective , will show , through the figures , that they have no political colour or orientation .
As I have said , we are not opposed to such a study .
Madam President , Commissioner , the problem does not lie in the ideology of the debate but in its political nature .
The main objective of this debate is to look at the instruments available to the international community for stabilising the international financial and monetary system .
In this respect , Mr Bolkestein , the motion for a resolution cannot be separated from the issue of the Tobin tax .
Secondly , the motion does not say that we want a solely European initiative .
There should be no confusion in this debate . As environmentalists , we do not want an excuse for a motion .
Although a study produced by the Commission would doubtless be interesting , we do not need another to add to those already available .
This argument is therefore not relevant .
I will not go into the basic issue any further for everyone has their arguments .
However , I would highlight not only paragraph 9 of the motion , but also paragraph 10 .
Obviously we all have different approaches which is demonstrated by our debate and the motions for a resolution tabled at the beginning .
Having said this , our Group is pleased about the step forward which the compromise motion represents .
This invites the Commission to present a report within six months .
This debate concerns a vital question which increasing numbers of people are legitimately raising . What are the respective places of people and finance in today ' s economy ?
USD 1 800 billion is the volume of money moved every day in the world ' s currency markets . This represents over a quarter of the annual global volume of trade in goods and services .
By putting finance at the helm , this has reinforced the demands of profitability and toughened the operating conditions everywhere .
It has led to a growth in mergers , acquisitions and company restructuring and to gigantic sums being raised with increasing frequency on the financial markets .
Unemployment and pressure on employees worldwide is increasing .
Openings and real growth are being hampered and the sudden influx or withdrawal of speculative capital is threatening the economies of many countries , to the point of collapse , as in Asia , Russia and Brazil .
No one can ignore the challenge to civilisation posed by the lack of nearly one billion jobs and the need to make unprecedented efforts in terms of development and access to information .
In this respect , all ideas deserve to be considered , including the Tobin tax which is important , just like other forms of transaction which may be envisaged .
The Commissioner has said that a minimum number of industrialised countries would be needed to achieve this .
In any case , the European Parliament would be honoured to take up the call of the people to control the world in order to achieve a sense of well-being for everyone .
Madam President , I too am delighted that we are having this debate . I only regret that it has been so long in coming .
Our world is now dominated by a single logic or , I could say , a single god of money at work instead of people at work .
With a figure for trade in goods and services of FRF 36 000 billion only being equal to the product of four days ' speculation , the financial bubble owes very little to the productive activity of individuals .
It was natural that these lites would exclude any political concerns from their field of manoeuvre , thus protecting themselves from any democratic control and basically managing to be both illegitimate and irresponsible .
If the world ' s other important currency trading areas were to be excluded from the Tobin tax , the fact that tax was liable to be paid in Europe would lead to currency dealing moving to those areas .
This has already been made clear a number times in this debate .
It is not enough that all the world ' s industrialised countries should be included in the scheme , as then currency trading would move to tax havens outside that group of countries .
There should therefore be a universal application : it is not enough that the G7 countries or the other industrialised countries are involved .
Furthermore , although there might be international consensus on the introduction of the scheme , the question would remain regarding how the tax revenue would be distributed .
With regard to the Tobin tax as a means of preventing future currency crises , it has to be realised that the causes of a currency being overvalued cannot be averted through taxation .
For that reason , as Mr Karas also said , we should give more attention to the policies that lead to a certain currency being overvalued in relation to its actual potential value .
This again would require measures to regulate the exportation and importation of capital ; otherwise it would not be possible to focus on policies in this way .
Although it seems a reasonable scheme , the Tobin tax is not without its problems , even if there should be agreement as to its implementation , which I do not believe there will .
It has to be remembered that money at present is first and foremost information , and that the global economy will , in the future , rotate more and more on the basis of information and intellectual capital .
For that reason , the uninterrupted flow of assets in massive volumes between the world ' s financial centres is not merely speculative activity , which has nothing to do with the real economy .
Hence , as Mr Karas has stated to his credit , our Group is resolutely opposed to the introduction of the Tobin tax .
Madam President , I speak as someone who is in support of a tax on speculative capital movements across currency borders .
It seems to me blindingly self-evident that some action is necessary .
The size , unpredictability and irrationality of the global foreign exchange markets have made it harder and harder to manage national and regional economies .
Computer-controlled selling programmes turned a random blip into an avalanche , burying jobs , lives and industries across the globe .
Mr Chirac has described those who engage in this as the Aids virus of the world economy .
What is necessary is to throw some sand into the wheels of the currency speculators , stockbrokers and option traders .
Of course , this cannot be done in one country ; it cannot be done within the single currency area , but it could be done at international level with global cooperation .
Europe , Japan and the US - the euro , the yen and the dollar , would constitute , in my opinion , such a block .
I am disappointed in the EPP .
I thought at least they read the resolutions they were going to vote on .
Yes , I am in favour of such a tax , but it is not what we are going to vote on tomorrow .
What we are going to vote on tomorrow is to ask the Commission to study the matter , to look at what steps and what conditions would be necessary for the introduction of such a tax .
There is nothing so closed as a closed mind .
The tax has the support of 47 % of the people in the UK , according to a recent survey by War on Want .
In France it has had enormous resonance , particularly when linked to a demand to use the proceeds to help the Third World out of its debt and poverty .
This issue can no longer be ignored by Parliament , the Council or the Commission .
There is now a weight of public opinion demanding an answer more sophisticated than : " It has not been done before " .
One of the main demands of the demonstrators in Seattle was , rightly , the establishment of this type of tax , and this is not by chance .
The proposal of this tax today sends out a strong signal from the rich European countries proving that they want to move away from the culture of egoism .
Everyone feels that this kind of joint tax is a virtuous measure which does not prevent trade but is aimed primarily at speculation and its perverse effects . The Members on the right should note this .
It symbolises the need for solidarity with the countries of the south , particularly those in Africa , the Caribbean and the Pacific which questioned us extensively on this subject in Seattle .
In order to fully achieve its objective , the money supply released by such a tax must be redistributed among the poorest countries .
This is how we can give sense and morality to the commercial rules and show solidarity with the people of the south .
We cannot maintain a situation in which investments and the creation of jobs are less lucrative than short-term sales of foreign currency and shares .
We cannot maintain a situation in which we allow ourselves to destroy the opportunity to take political action .
We cannot maintain a situation in which income from non-economic activities increases more and more quickly .
It has been demonstrated in Germany that income from monetary assets has almost doubled from 7.6 % of overall economic income since Tobin developed his idea .
We cannot maintain a situation in which the poorest countries of the world are most exposed to the speculative arguments surrounding short-term currency fluctuations .
Nor do I believe that this is impracticable .
Why should it not be possible for the G7 countries , the other EU Member States , China , Singapore and Switzerland to come to an agreement on the introduction of the Tobin tax ?
There must be an overriding economic interest .
Why should it be impracticable , and it can be differentiated , to impose this tax on spot foreign exchange transactions , all the so-called cash transactions , currency futures and options ?
Why should it be impracticable to set this tax at a rate which does not jeopardise the long-term investments needed by the economy but which finally makes short-term and speculative investments unattractive .
Madam President , we are not asking for more bureaucracy , as Mr Karas put it just a few minutes ago .
We are looking for solutions .
Of course capital markets need clarity - that is actually the idea .
The Tobin tax will bring some transparency to a very obscure question .
" The more progress is made towards trade liberalisation , the more rules are needed " , as Commissioner Lamy said during the Millennium Round in Seattle .
He recognised that the combined impact of the single market and the single currency that characterise the process of the European Union 's construction is intimately linked to a huge amount of new regulations .
We citizens of the world cannot afford the current rate of speculation .
To continue would be economic suicide .
Honourable Members , Commissioner , it is often said that Europe has succeeded in stabilising the economic sector , but this is only true if we confine ourselves purely to the public sector .
The fact that the public accepts such rates and does not just abandon all financial activities in a panic can be explained by overambitious expectations over future gains .
Speculative activities are growing beyond measure and are , in turn , generating profits which will eventually prove to be merely fictitious .
Over-optimism will give way to disappointment and fear , which , in turn , will result in a stock market and economic crisis .
The danger is too great for us to ignore .
We ought to face it regardless of how difficult it may seem .
Modern economic science has provided an exceptional instrument with the Tobin proposal and others , which we will be able to use if we have the political will to make a start .
That is what we are lacking , Commissioner : the political will to make a start in tackling speculation .
Madam President , Mr Bolkestein , the ignorance surrounding this debate is unbelievable .
We needed a Greek Member to finally tell us what this Tobin tax means .
You reject it flatly because you do not understand the first thing about it .
That the Right opposes taxes is quite understandable , except that they should never have been allowed to spirit their millions , or rather billions , into Switzerland .
We all know that !
But now I call on you , in all consciousness , to help put a stop to speculative financial transactions and undermining long-term projects with long-term capital .
It has never been done in south-east Asia , it has never been done in Europe , and I can understand why Mr Karas from Austria has left the chamber , given Austria ' s financial record .
They are all tarred with the same dirty brush !
We need a Tobin tax to give us a fiscal instrument with which we can intervene .
Madam President , I am totally appalled by the Commission ' s , i.e. Mr Bolkestein ' s , political ignorance !
He should perhaps use his position on the Tobin tax to ask himself why he is here at all !
Madam President , I too have found parts of the debate quite bizarre .
Those who own the monetary assets are currently amassing huge fortunes which are again screaming out to be reinvested .
We have asset inflation of global proportions .
As a result , speculative bubbles continually arise on the financial markets , causing growing economic instability which , in turn , jeopardises the entire economy .
And it is precisely the medium-sized undertakings and large numbers of employees who suffer as a result .
We can take action against this ; it is possible .
The minimum requirements for this would be for a proper study to be carried out at long last , not only by the Commission , but by reputable economic institutes throughout Europe .
That too is feasible .
And then perhaps everyone will stop bandying about arguments which are asking for trouble !
It is not correct that the Tobin tax is technically impracticable - it is quite feasible in the age of the computer .
The fact that tax havens are frequently nothing but hard disk storage space for large European banks here at home must not be ignored .
Madam President , let us indeed tax money speculation : it does not produce anything new .
The tax would be targeted at the right place : at the speculators .
Who is going to defend these speculators , when nurses and teachers are paying top rates of tax ?
Article 73 c of the Treaty establishing the European Union provides scope for taxation on transactions .
Those who oppose taxation on currency dealing are in favour of those tax-recycling centres , the tax havens , of which there are 62 in all .
The Union should make a tax pact , which any countries could initially be party to .
The low rate Tobin tax would not cause tax-recycling problems .
It is strange to claim that if everyone is not included it would be impossible to bring into effect .
The European Union was founded through the efforts of just a few countries , and you see how we are today .
The truth is the greatest problem is a political one : they do not want to tax capital , but raise personal taxation instead .
In the end tax would politicise the global , undemocratic system of financial power .
Ladies and gentlemen , we must challenge the monopoly the world ' s speculative elite have on planning the world ' s economy by remaining outside the tax system .
Madam President , may I begin by extending a heartfelt thanks to all speakers and , above all of course , Mr Dsir , for the fact that this debate is taking place this evening .
Whatever one may think about the topic of debate , it is evident that it is an important one .
This is why it has been around for years , and it is satisfying that the Commission is being afforded the opportunity this evening to give a response .
I would like to start by underlining two remarks made by the Member of your Parliament , Mr Gasliba .
He said that globalisation is a positive phenomenon , and I share his view .
A second remark made by Mr Gasliba was that there is currently no evidence that the Tobin tax will stabilise the exchange rates .
I think that he is correct in this regard .
I too am not aware of any reason why a tax on exchange rate transactions would lead to a stabilisation of exchange rates .
I am of the opinion that these are two important remarks , and that is why I am reiterating them here .
Madam President , could I furthermore point out that none of the speakers this evening has drawn a link between the Tobin tax on the one hand and the functioning of the European Union on the other ?
Surely we are all familiar with the Treaty of Rome and know that one of the four freedoms is the freedom of capital movement .
In my capacity as Commissioner for the Internal Market , I am , in other words , opposed to all measures which hamper international financial transactions .
You could hardly expect this Commissioner to agree with a tax which would , in fact , impede international economic movement .
Madam President , apart from these - to my mind - quite fundamental observations , there are also practical objections to the Tobin tax , as already underlined by Mr Karas and other speakers .
It has unfortunately been observed , I have to say , that the European Union has failed to reach agreement internally on specific tax measures .
This indicates how difficult these dossiers are .
If we have not been able to reach agreement internally , I wonder whether we will then be able to convince the other trade partners .
I think that this will be problematic .
Madam President , Mr Jonckheer has stated that this could be one of the measures for stabilising the financial markets .
In order to remove these causes , one has to look at what is happening in the countries in question .
Is it the case that these countries can boast of what is termed in English ' good governance ' ?
Is it the case that there is low inflation and that there are low interest rates ?
That the markets for production factors , including the labour market , operate flexibly ?
That is not always the case .
So if we want to look into what causes exchange rate instability , then we need to take into account the elements of good governance and focus on these first .
In addition - and this has also been mentioned already , for example by Mr Gasliba I Bhm , but also by others - there is a need for more supervision .
More supervision nationally - supervision by national governments of national banks - and internationally , for example by means of the IMF .
Madam President , according to various Members of your Parliament , more funding should still be made available for major projects .
For example , Mr Kreissl-Drfler spoke in English about ' long-term capital for long-term projects ' - this is an obvious issue .
Madam President , I should like to leave it here .
As far as the resolution is concerned , of which I have seen a draft , the Commission will await the vote and will , based on this , determine its stance .
I thank you for giving me the opportunity to take part in this debate .
I have received four motions for a resolution , tabled pursuant to Rule 40 ( 5 ) of the Rules of Procedure .
Madam President , unfortunately I do not have your mastery of the French language .
But I would be obliged if Mr Bolkestein would just listen for a minute , which I think he cannot do at the same time as talking to Mrs Randzio-Plath .
Could you please draw his attention to the fact that I have something to say to him ?
Monsieur Bolkestein , je veux vous dire quelque chose !
Unfortunately , my Dutch is not as good as yours .
But I would rather like to say something else to you .
Parliament is not taking the initiative and supporting a Tobin type tax just to annoy the Commission .
We want to examine the possibility of introducing a Tobin tax .
It will be just one of several instruments and hopefully you will be on our side in this .
From a political point of view , I always fret when people say , we neither need , want nor can we achieve these things !
It is not your job , it is our job to decide on that .
It also has something to do with the newly awoken self-consciousness of this Parliament .
I just want to discuss it with you , no more and no less .
We can do so without going off at other tangents . I respect you as a serious Commissioner who wants to take his work seriously .
Please respect us as Members of Parliament who want to take our work seriously , and that includes the Tobin tax !
Mr Dsir , I note your comment and the existence of this joint motion for a resolution .
If the services of the Presidency confirm that this was correctly tabled , it will be included .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 p.m.
( The sitting was closed at 8.14 p.m. )
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
Mr President , I simply wanted to pass on some news . There was a terrorist attack this morning in Madrid .
Someone planted a car bomb and one person has died .
On behalf of my Group , I once again condemn these terrorist acts .
Thank you , Mrs Fraga Estvez .
We had heard about this regrettable incident .
Unfortunately , the terrorist murderers are once again punishing Spanish society . I note your comments with particular keenness , as you may expect , given that I too am Spanish .
( The Minutes were approved )
Resumption of the session
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday , 21 January 2000 .
Madam President , allow me to remind you that tomorrow will be the second anniversary of the Cermis tragedy .
Mrs Angelilli , thank you . I have taken note of your comment .
Agenda
The next item is the order of business .
If you decide to add this debate to the agenda , it will be introduced by speeches from Mr Seixas da Costa , President-in-Office of the Council , and Mr Romano Prodi , President of the Commission .
Is there anyone who wishes to speak in favour of this proposal ?
Madam President , it would really be very difficult to imagine a debate which is more in accordance with Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure .
This debate is topical , exceptionally important and urgent .
We therefore believe that the agenda should be amended to include it .
( Applause )
Is there anyone who wishes to speak against this proposal ?
If you ratify ...
Mr Gollnisch , excuse me , you have one minute . I know that you always take particular care to ensure that the Rules of Procedure are observed .
Madam President , I thought I had three minutes .
Do forgive me .
We have heard one speaker in favour and one against .
I shall now , therefore , put this proposal for an amendment to the agenda to the vote .
( Parliament gave its assent )
This debate is therefore added at the top of the order of business .
TOPICAL AND URGENT DEBATE
The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance .
Talks in Austria on forming a government
The next item is the debate on the talks in Austria on forming a government .
I shall immediately give the floor to Mr Seixas da Costa , President-in-Office of the Council .
Madam President , President of the Commission , President-in-Office of the Council , the Group of the Party of European Socialists hopes that this debate will send three messages to the European public .
Let it be noted that we are completely united on all three counts .
In any event , these common values are in complete opposition to those held by the party ironically known as the Austrian Freedom Party .
I will say one thing . For many years I was a traitor to my country ; at least that was General Franco ' s view .
President Guterres was also a traitor in Salazar ' s eyes , and that is something that I believe should also be stated and defended by the PPE-DE .
I also believe that the Commission , or President Prodi , has acted as a guardian of the Treaties .
However , I would remind him that , during his inaugural debate , he described the Commission as a European government .
A government must have more nerve and more courage .
That is what I am asking President Prodi for at this moment .
( Applause )
Secondly , Madam President , we wish to send a very clear message to the Austrian people .
We should not be so politically partisan .
The accession of Austria to the Community was a joint venture .
We all took part in it , not just one group .
I therefore think that this is a great day for European politics to commence .
We support the Council and we believe that it is our right and our obligation to appeal to the Austrian people to seriously reconsider this completely crazy option .
( Applause from the PSE Group )
Madam President , my group welcomes this debate because it is a defining moment .
This is the first time in the history of the modern European project that we stand at the threshold of seeing the mainstreaming of a party of the extreme right .
That is deeply disturbing .
The FP contends that if one reads their literature and their programme , there is much in it that one could share .
That may be , but let me place on the record today a long and difficult experience which we Liberal Democrats had with the Austrian FP in our Liberal International family .
As early as 1986 , we had cause to believe that Mr Jrg Haider was not a man whose principles or attitudes were consistent with decency and modern liberalism .
In November of 1991 , after a long internal debate in Liberal International and many visits to Vienna to discuss issues , we suspended the FP from membership and in July 1993 we expelled them .
We expelled them then and we continue to reject what Mr Haider stands for now .
Let me share what we learned in that long experience .
There were many in our ranks who said " read the text " .
There were many more in our ranks who said " read the subtext " , " look at the context " .
Words in politics can be incendiary , can be inflammatory , or can be conciliatory .
We found that Mr Jrg Haider , as a wordsmith , has been a voice for racism and for xenophobia .
He is a man who plays on fear and who has exploited vulnerability .
That is why this debate is important - to put down a marker that when you mainstream extremism , something profound is happening in Europe today .
( Applause )
I hasten to add that our quarrel is not with the Austrian people .
We respect the rights of the Austrian people to their own democratic process .
Every right-thinking person in this House believes that these are universal and indivisible without regard to colour , class or creed .
We must promote and defend those rights , all the while saying to the people of Austria : our quarrel is not with you .
I wish to say with regard to the initiative of the Portuguese Presidency that we support the spirit and the political intention behind it .
It may not be an ideal initiative in terms of its structure but we accept Mr President-in-Office , that it is rooted in idealism and for that reason we are inclined to support it .
I share with President Prodi a preference for the Community method and we must look at Article 6 and Article 7 of the Treaty .
Article 7 talks about the possibility of suspension in the event of serious or persistent breaches of our fundamental values .
We must find a way as institutions to benchmark and give meaning to this so that it has a reality and a substance .
Then we can work together by the Community method to root out this cancer within our midst .
I want to say Madame President some words to Mr Schssel .
Mr Schssel is a man with an honourable record in European politics .
He now intends to ride into government on the back of a political tiger .
Mr Schssel - you are assuming a very serious , personal , national and European responsibility .
That responsibility , which you Mr Schssel now take on , is to respect the letter and the spirit of the European Treaties .
Finally , Madame President , this is a debate which touches on the heart of our democratic values and institutions and calls to mind that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance .
It is a dogged insistence by the democratically elected part of the institutions of this Union that we will not as Europeans countenance turning the clock back .
( Loud applause )
Madam President , in my group ' s opinion , the European Union today faces a political and ethical challenge which is without precedent since the creation of the Union .
The European Union has certainly previously known situations where there were people in a Member State government whose ideas and actions were in contradiction to the guiding values of the Union .
However , with Haider and his men , we would see the extreme right , openly racist , anti-Semitic and xenophobic , promoted to the rank of co-ruler of our Community .
Of course , there can be no question of casting opprobrium upon the people of Austria .
Any action which can be taken must , in our opinion , serve the twofold function of proscribing Haider without , however , isolating Austrian society .
Democrats in this country now need our support more than ever .
The great joining of forces in protest in Vienna on 12 November last year must now undergo developments suited to the new situation .
We must have dialogue with them and join forces with them , stand at their side in order to offer the people of Austria some alternative prospects .
Finally , we must ask ourselves : how did we come to be in this position ?
This debate is now before us , but each and every one of us , male and female , is going to assume their responsibilities without delay .
( Applause )
We have never before seen such serious , clumsy interference in the internal affairs of a Member State .
However , up till now , Austria has committed no serious or persistent violation .
Sanctions can be imposed after the Treaties have been violated , but cannot be applied if a democratically elected party enters government .
( Applause from the right ) It is via diplomacy , persuasion , knowledge , and solidarity , and not with threats or via anti-constitutional means that the institutions can ensure respect for themselves and for principles .
Bilateral relations involve the States , so the 14 do not come into this .
So many things set us apart from Mr Haider - as we have often written - including his claim to the completely Italian Alto Adige region . However , we already knew this .
However , today we are concerned to learn that other representatives of the Union seem to have turned their backs on the Union ' s democratic role .
We believe in Europe , while it seems that others have started the process of breaking up the Union .
This is what has come of rushing headlong into enlargement and not clearly defining roles and tasks .
We have built a Europe with an unstable market , not a Europe with principles , rights and politics .
And these are the consequences !
In the event there is absolutely no serious and persistent breach in Austria .
There are risks , as we are all aware , but in the event there is absolutely no serious and persistent breach .
We could , if one third of the Members of Parliament so requested , require that the Council and the Commission look into the matter .
( The President cut the speaker off )
Madame President , my group , the EDD , and especially my party , are very concerned by this debate .
We cannot , and we do not , support in any way the sentiments and politics of Herr Haider and we deplore his references to the Third Reich .
We also , however , deplore the fact that your Parliament should consider interfering in the policies of an elected government of any country , especially one which is part of the European Union .
My party at home are certainly not racists , but we do not accept the rule or interference of the European Union very well .
Are you going to interfere with Great Britain ' s Parliament if we are elected ?
Madame President , the people of Austria have spoken by electing Herr Haider to their Parliament .
I believe they gave him 28 % of the vote so there is going to be a coalition government .
Your Parliament , may I suggest , Madame President , should wait to see if the party of Haider has an effect on the policies of that country .
Then , and only then , might you consider if human rights are affected .
Your Parliament may consider measures appropriate to counter that situation and then , Madame President and only then , may your Parliament consider interfering in the constitutional affairs of a country of the European Union .
Madam President , as a representative of the Freedom Party , I respect the concerns some of my fellow MEPs have with regard to the democratic developments in Austria .
Austria must take the responsibility on its own shoulders for the often dubious image other countries tend to have of it , rightly or wrongly .
This FP has now entered into a coalition with the VP , due to the outcome of elections held on 3 October 1999 , when the previous government was voted out of office .
This is the citizen of a state ' s prerogative , for it is the founding principle of a democracy .
When the talks between the SP and VP broke down , the Socialists attempted to form a minority government and asked the FP for their support .
We were offered three ministerial posts - you can read it for yourself in the newspapers - the very party that is being denounced as fascistic here !
When we suddenly refused this offer , an inflammatory and rabble-rousing propaganda campaign began that is beyond our comprehension to this day .
The FP party is established in Austria ' s political landscape .
The head of the government of one of the nine provinces belongs to this party and it is involved in all the other provincial governments .
There is prejudice at work here , which - without going into our programme - is reducing the darkest hour of European history to a political spectacle .
Shame on you Mr Bertinotti !
You might have run out of political arguments but that does not give you the right to use those who were murdered as cheap propaganda .
Denouncing a democratically elected politician as a Nazi does not make you an anti-fascist !
On the contrary , you are deriding the true victims of National Socialism and playing down what the fascist dictators did .
Your behaviour stems from your own prejudices , you are dispensing with any form of political debate and you are displaying precisely the kind of behaviour you claim to oppose .
The attacks against Austria ' s new government and the attempts to exert political influence in a Member State are an insult to the Austrian people .
That is why we are indebted to the Commission for taking a stance that separates it from the rest .
The new coalition agreement is about reforming a democracy , the rights of the opposition , commitment to compensating those forced into hard labour ....
( The President cut the speaker off )
Madam President , to begin with , I would like to make one thing abundantly clear : Austria is not in danger of experiencing a resurgence of a one-party system or of a totalitarian system of right-wing persuasion .
Austria is a stable democracy ; one in which human rights and fundamental freedoms are guaranteed under the constitution and are afforded the protection of an independent judiciary .
Austria is a cosmopolitan country and xenophobia and discrimination have no place there .
There will be a functioning majority and likewise a functioning opposition .
We respect and accept the discussion that is taking place and also appreciate the concerns that are being voiced in many of our Member States as to the way ahead for Austria .
Our understanding springs from the knowledge that our history of the recent past has bequeathed to us a political responsibility of special importance in the present .
Our country was not just the first victim of the Hitler dictatorship , many people were perpetrators too , although I refute any suggestion of collective guilt .
The VP played no small part in helping Austria find its way into the European Union .
My country ' s place is not outside the European Union but in it ...
... , with all the rights and commitments that this entails !
My party can be relied upon to see to it that my country holds firm to the course of European politics and continues to be rooted in the European community of values !
( Applause )
Madam President , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , Representatives of the Commission , it is a black day for Austria and for Europe .
Not even Mr Sichrovsky ' s web of lies or Mrs Stenzel ' s words of appeasement can do anything to change that .
For the day has dawned : two irresponsible politicians , consumed with a lust for power , are selling Austria ' s image , political role , and to some extent even its economic interests , down the river !
( Applause , heckling )
They are trading this in for a head of government ' s position and for membership of a government .
However , my criticism - and I freely admit this - my rage , is directed exclusively against those who have provoked these reactions and continue to do so , Messrs Schssel and Haider and their parties , ...
... and that includes their representatives in this Parliament .
Mr Poettering , it is interesting to note that you are in almost as difficult a position as I am , albeit for different reasons , for you are having to defend something that goes against your convictions .
The argument that Mr Poettering himself used has come into play , i.e. that it would only be possible to deprive Haider of his mystique if he were to be integrated into the political system .
However , in my view , he will be no more able or willing to be integrated into this , into our political system , and into the Europe of today , than any other extreme right-wing movement .
( Applause )
This historic weight of guilt falls on the shoulders of the Conservatives for having consorted with the wolf of their own free will and waiting to be devoured .
That is how the wolf - albeit on account of the self-sacrifice of the VP - is sustained rather than kept in check .
I understand that Europe and the civilised world wants to have as little as possible to do with such a government .
However , by the same token , there is another Austria , the one where umpteen thousand people demonstrated against the FP having any involvement in government , and who will continue to demonstrate against this government .
I urge you to support this Europe and to support and help this Austria !
( Applause )
The more powerful this Europe becomes and the more vigilant it is towards authoritarian tendencies in the Europe of today , the more successful we will be in striking at the roots of right-wing extremism .
For Europe is and will remain the most potent guarantee we have against xenophobia and demagogy , or even against a relapse into barbarism .
Please support the Austrian people against this government !
( Applause )
Madam President , this is an historic moment , as it is now , at last , quite clear to us all that the European Union has gradually developed into a community of values .
We see this , now that the government of one Member State is being joined by a party which , as is known , does not respect all these values .
It must not be allowed to remain a mere declaration .
As important is the fact that Austria ' s forces of democracy should be given support , as none of us wishes to isolate the country .
We know that most Austrians respect these values .
They have also shown how they feel : not all the demonstrations have taken place outside Austria .
Doubtless there are also a lot of protest voters on the scene that have wanted a change in Austrian policy for a long time .
I believe Parliament should support these forces of democracy .
I also appeal to the Austrian President , that he might yet look into all the possibilities for forming a government made up of democratic forces .
Madam President , I would simply like to stress the value of the attitude that the leader of our group , Francis Wurtz , reminded us of just now .
I welcome the statements by the Presidency of the Council and the position of the 14 countries which have rejected official contact with an Austrian Government that includes Jrg Haider ' s party .
Our normal disagreement further emphasises our appreciation today : this is extraordinary because the danger of a resurgence of an irrational , neo-nazi element in Europe is extraordinary .
This danger does not concern Austria , it concerns Europe .
We are talking about us , not Austria .
Not only the Alpine region , but all our countries are involved : the conditions are being created whereby democracy and European civilisation may once again come under threat .
The position taken by the presidency has shown that it is aware of this tragedy for civilisation .
Europe is showing that it has not forgotten Auschwitz ; Europe is coming face to face with the suffering of the past .
This is the change we must impose on the Commission ' s action .
Madam President , we are debating an extremely serious issue .
A simple reading of chapter 4 , article 1 of the Austrian Freedom Party ' s manifesto is enough to make any democratic conscience shudder .
Of course Austria is a sovereign nation and of course we must respect the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of a Member State .
However , that is not the problem .
The question is whether the Union can remain indifferent to the formation of a government in a Member State which includes such a party .
Our answer to this crucial question is no .
( Applause )
Konrad Adenauer once said - and he knew what he was saying - that the surest way to pacify a tiger was to allow it to devour you .
History is a compendium of events which could have been avoided .
( Loud applause )
It is not true to say that , when a government forms an alliance with neo-Fascists somewhere in Europe , this is merely a question of national sovereignty .
For this Union of ours is not a grouping of neighbouring nation states who are simply coming to mutual arrangements to improve their collective circumstances .
Let us learn the lessons of the past .
They put their own petty squabbles first , and the rest is history .
We must make a rapid , strong and united response .
I would have liked to hear your discussion with the Austrian President , Mr Poettering . We are well aware that he is very embarrassed today at the dirty deal that government has done in forming such an alliance .
So our response must be rapid and strong .
Of course , the Treaty provides us with a barrier when things become intolerable ; I was almost going to say ' irreparable ' .
And when that day comes , it is too late .
We must therefore find a political solution .
Our response must be rapid .
If today we do not staunchly support the Council , then history will judge us , saying that we achieved the political equivalent of the Munich Agreement .
Today , we thank the Austrian people for this democratic triumph which is important to all nations within Europe and to anyone who feels particularly strongly about freedom and freedom of speech .
Madam President , this debate was opened by Mr Da Costa , who merely confirms that the EU presidency is trying to influence the composition of a government of one of the Member States .
This debate , and the background to it , reinforced the point that the Council , the Commission and this Parliament itself are dominated by Socialists .
My delegation of 37 Conservative and Unionist Members from the United Kingdom reject absolutely the underlying philosophy , programme and tone of Austria ' s Freedom Party .
We were also outraged , however , at the tolerance of the left for the tyranny , the terror and the excesses of the former USSR .
Even today , surely it is high time for the Party of European Socialists to break their fraternal links with China ' s Communist Party .
This , Madam President , is the hypocrisy of the left .
So we condemn that hypocrisy and the double standards , especially of the British government and the other largely socialist heads of EU governments and include that of the United States .
We should recognise , however , that the democratic process sometimes produces uncomfortable results .
This requires action to address the underlying causes , including an examination of the electoral process itself .
That should be our task , not political posturing .
Madam President , Representative of the Council , Commissioner , a week ago , the big international Holocaust Conference ended in Stockholm .
Its aim was to combat the forgetfulness and the evil in today ' s society which takes the form of xenophobia and neo-nazism .
Secondly , I want to say that we must be consistent in our own behaviour and in our evaluations .
We demand of the candidate States and of the countries with which the EU cooperates under the Lom Agreement that they should respect human rights and show tolerance towards their neighbours .
We must do the same as far as we ourselves are concerned .
That is why we are reacting against this carry-on in Austria .
It is not acceptable to continue as if nothing had happened .
We are at a watershed in the history of the European Union .
The Union is not only an economic community but also a community of values , something which we take seriously . Something has happened .
The European Union is in the process of finding its soul and getting some steel in its spine .
Madam President , as everyone has said , this is a very important day . It is the day of the first debate of European political life .
And this is not pure chance .
I feel that today ' s meeting is not a meeting of Europe , our institutions , with Austria or Mr Haider ' s party .
It is the meeting of Europe with itself , with its raison d ' tre , with the reasons why we are here in this Chamber .
This Chamber was not made for goods , it was not made for money .
This Chamber , and the European institutions , were build to uphold values , morality and a certain spirit .
The fact is that it is enough to read the manifesto of Mr Haider ' s party , the FP , to find nationalist glorification , populism and racial superiority in every chapter .
Reading only one sentence which my friend , Mr Vidal-Quadras , has previously mentioned , " The nation is defined by its location , culture and race , locally , ethnically and culturally . "
Well , we cannot accept such statements .
( Applause )
Madam President , we the Belgian Christian Democrats are concerned as , fortunately , are a great many other Members too .
The coalition which is being created in one of the Member States is clearly an Austrian affair but undoubtedly has a European dimension too .
Because what is it that unites us in Europe ? Surely it is the values and principles of freedom , democracy and respect for human rights , more than anything .
The Austrian Freedom Party leader , Mr Haider , has repeatedly repudiated these values .
He also repudiates the basic forms of diplomatic politeness .
He is a dangerous man .
The Christian Democratic parties in my country have made up their minds a long time ago and they stick to their decision to listen to the protests of extreme-right voters but never to negotiate with extreme-right leaders .
Values should take precedence over power .
We deplore , therefore , what is happening in Austria . In fact , we were shaken by it .
We are extremely disappointed . As a last resort , we would ask the VP to look into alternatives .
We keep reminding them about Article 6 of the Treaty .
We continue to fight against the trivialisation of the extreme right .
Madam President , Austria awaits a heavy responsibility .
Have you stopped to ask what kind of effect the debate we are having here and the statement delivered by the Council Presidency last weekend are having in Austria itself ?
Have you stopped to ask whether or not we will also be responsible for the way in which the political situation unfolds from now if we set ourselves up to pass judgement on it here ?
Have you stopped to ask what would happen if the wish of a certain fellow MEP was to be fulfilled and elections were to be held in Austria in the course of the next few days ?
From all accounts , this would only serve to strengthen Haider .
Who would want this to happen ?
Is it not our responsibility to give thought to how we should tackle this brand of politics ?
Europe is a community of law .
Democracy , respect for human rights and rule of law are amongst the principles that we must uphold .
It is for reasons of constitutionality that the President-in-Office of the Council ought not to have made the statement he did , and in a manner that goes against the Treaty .
( Applause )
I am duty- bound to say to this House , there is no ambiguity or fragility or complacency in the opinion offered , or indeed the action taken , by the Commission on this issue .
We made explicit reference yesterday morning in our statement , as did the President this afternoon , to the fact that we share the concern demonstrated by fourteen Member States in their statement on Monday .
Secondly , we said , in very specific terms , that we will work closely with all Member States in examining the situation as it develops in Austria .
There is no complacency , no fragility and no ambiguity about any of that at all .
I say that in friendship and honour to my friend and colleague , Franz Fischler .
That surely is in everyone ' s interests .
In order to ensure that the Treaty is upheld and that we sustain what was described as the Community machine , we are following the course of action which was set down in our statement yesterday .
We will continue to do that , Madam President , without fear or favour .
That is our duty .
It is also a matter of conviction .
My final point is this . We understand the context of this essential debate .
We understand that , and we recall too the sometimes short and selective memory that he has of Nazism .
And , when we recall that , like many others on all sides of this House , my and my colleagues ' instincts are naturally aroused .
However , the Commission has to act on the basis of values and law and not only on the basis of instinct .
And that is why we came to the conclusion we reached yesterday morning .
That is why we sustain that conclusion as we continue to uphold the values and the law .
Without fragility , without complacency , without ambiguity , but in the service of the whole Union and every Member State of the Union and its people .
We will continue to do that with energy and with consistency and as Mr Cox said in the debate , ' necessarily with acute vigilance ' .
Does the Commission support the Council ?
Thank you , Commissioner Kinnock .
I think that we have just had a great political debate , equal to the situation and to what could be expected of it .
Thank you , ladies and gentlemen .
The debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance is closed .
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow .
Recourse to the precautionary principle
The next item is the Commission statement on recourse to the precautionary principle .
I want to start by saying that I am pleased to be presenting this communication on the use of the precautionary principle , and it has been written together with David Byrne and Erkki Liikanen .
The precautionary principle is not a new concept .
It also appears in a range of international texts , for example , the Rio Declaration and most recently the Bio-Safety Protocol .
The essence of the precautionary principle is clear .
However , the use of the precautionary principle has been increasingly in the spotlight in recent years .
Events such as the BSE and dioxin crisis have stimulated a growing public debate about the circumstances in which precautionary action is justified and necessary .
In view of this growing interest , the Commission therefore considered that it would be useful to present a communication to set out its position on the use of the precautionary principle .
The basic aim of the communication is twofold .
The Commission ' s starting point in applying the precautionary principle is the need to ensure a high level of protection in the fields of environmental , human , animal and plant health .
Of course , this objective cannot be used to justify irrational or arbitrary measures , but it does mean that action can still be taken even in situations where the science is unclear .
As such , while the precautionary principle does not involve the politicisation of science , as some have alleged , it does take us to the crossroads between science and politics .
The initial decision to apply the precautionary principle depends largely on the level of protection sought and the level of risk that decision-makers are prepared to accept for society .
It is therefore political by nature .
However , the measures that may subsequently be taken must obviously comply with the general principles applicable to risk management and the guidelines for applying the precautionary principle are therefore the key element of the paper .
Measures taken must be proportional to the chosen level of protection - that is , we do not use the sledgehammer to crack a nut .
They must be non-discriminatory in their application , that is measures should not differentiate on the basis of geographical origin .
And they must be consistent with similar measures already taken .
For example , if one product has been approved , similar products should also be approved .
All these elements have to apply cumulatively .
This communication does not pretend to be the final word on this issue ; however , it is the first time that the Commission has presented a structured presentation of the principle and its operational use .
Mr President , Commissioner , thank you very much for your statement .
I have three short questions , the first being as follows .
We have been awaiting a common communication from the Commission on the precautionary principle for a very long time now and it was anything but clear in the past as to whether the Commission speaks with one voice .
Does the document you have presented here today also accord with the opinion of your colleagues the Commissioners for Industry , Foreign Trade , Competition and the Internal Market ?
I am sure that your answer to this will be " yes " but I would be grateful if you could tell me if these gentlemen are also aware as to what the consequences of this will be ?
My next question , Mrs Wallstrm , is when will you begin to apply this principle to legislation ; to legislation pertaining to chemicals or other sectors , for example ?
Lastly , will we be able to recognise when this principle has been applied in legislation ?
In other words , will each proposal contain an additional sheet stating that checks have been made as to the application of the precautionary principle and the following conclusion has been reached ?
. Thank you very much , Dagmar Roth-Behrendt , for these questions .
Of course , this is shared by the whole Commission .
This is a common communication which was written by the three of us , David Byrne , Erkki Liikanen and myself , but it has been passed unanimously in the Commission today .
It received strong support from the rest of the Commissioners and it has been through an interservice consultation in the whole of the Commission .
So we have really worked through this document and I am sure that they are all able to describe the guidelines and the principles as laid down in this document .
Yes , I would say we already use this way of working with different , difficult issues like a new chemical strategy for example .
And , I am sure that we will also mention it explicitly when we work with this principle .
We have just recently had a case of using the precautionary principle when it came to ban phthalates in soft PVC toys ; and of course , we apply it in several different environmental areas .
It has been mainly used in the environmental field , but , of course also when it comes to human health .
So , we will try to be very clear about how and when to use it .
Needless to say , this accords science a great deal of power .
We might ask ourselves , what kind of scientists will supply this documentation and what do they stand for ?
The communication also states that the precautionary principle can be applied , provided there is a sufficient recognised minority of scientists . I would like to ask , what is , then , the definition of a recognised minority ?
How would you describe this ?
What establishes a recognised minority ?
If a political decision is involved , I would also like to ask : who takes this political decision ?
The Commission ?
The Council ?
And to what extent will the European Parliament be able to play a role in this ?
What is the role of the scientific committees ?
What , also , will be the role of the food authorities which you are about to set up ?
Finally , will this whole decision-making process be carried out in a transparent , public way ?
These are my three questions .
. Yes , Mr President , that is true .
There were many and difficult issues and not always crystal clear , but I will try to answer some questions .
Who will take the decision , who are the decision-makers ?
Well , that depends on who the legislators are .
This is part of risk management .
They have to look at , for example , the concerns of people in relation to a special issue , and they have to judge from what is known about the scientific evidence in a certain case .
However , it is true that it does not need a big majority of the scientific community to be able to use the precautionary principle .
It can be used on evidence from a minority or where science is incomplete .
That is , of course , where you strike a balance between this principle as a political tool and science .
It is not always easy to describe exactly how this process is done , but there is no question of changing the scientific base .
We use the experts to get as much scientific information and facts as possible before we take a decision ; and that should also be done in the future .
You have to see this as a tool for risk management .
You have to decide whether you want to put people in danger , for example , or if you want to protect the environment ; and you have to look at the science that is available .
You have to assess all that and evaluate the science .
Then you decide to take a measure or not , to take action or not .
So , there is no answer to all your questions but this does not change the system of the scientists that we use today or the system of experts that we use today .
Mr President , I have a question concerning an actual , concrete case in which it should be possible to apply the precautionary principle .
It is about brominated flame retardants .
It is a fact that these substances are now being discovered . There are increased concentrations of them in both people and the environment .
There are many people who maintain that they entail major risks , while others question how large the risks involved in these substances really are .
Recently , both Sweden and Denmark urged the Commission in the Council of Ministers to take the initiative and ban brominated flame retardants .
I am wondering , therefore , if you are preparing such a ban and if it would not fit in very well with your approach to the precautionary principle itself to come up with such an initiative .
.
( SV ) Mr President , thank you very much , Mr Sjstedt , for this question .
The issue of brominated flame retardants is an important one .
It was raised quite recently in the Environment Council by a number of ministers who want the Commission to look at what basis there might be for a ban and at what might need to be done .
We are in the process of looking into this question and assessing what knowledge we have today and what it is possible to do .
Allow me to remind you , however , that use of the precautionary principle does not need to be synonymous with there being a total ban .
There may be a series of different measures which can be taken .
It ought not , therefore , to be immediately interpreted as a ban .
Where brominated flame retardants are concerned , there may eventually be a ban , but it is important to say that the precautionary principle permits the whole spectrum of political measures and initiatives to be taken .
This issue is extremely topical .
The Commission is to do its job and give proper attention to the issue before we come back with an assessment of what needs to be done .
You said that the precautionary principle should not be used as a disguised trade barrier .
Is the understanding of this point the same on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean ?
I think we are going to have problems particularly with hormone-treated beef and genetically modified crops .
Will the Americans take the same view of this point as we do ?
.
( SV ) Mr President , I am pleased to be able to tell you that , in Montreal , we have just signed a protocol concerning bio-safety .
We succeeded there in agreeing , at an international forum , as to the definition of the precautionary principle .
I consider it to be a breakthrough that we succeeded in concluding this protocol .
I believe it will set the trend for future discussions concerning the precautionary principle . We are going to be able to use this as an example of how the precautionary principle is to be interpreted .
It is , moreover , also accepted as an important and effective tool .
Mr President , I have two questions .
I shall try to be very brief indeed .
The first question concerns the implementation of the precautionary principle .
As I have understood it , there has been a certain lack of clarity in some respects as to how this is to be understood .
Is it the case that a risk assessment is firstly to be carried out , including a cost-benefit analysis ?
In that case , I am rather concerned , because the idea was really that a cost-benefit analysis should not be used as a tool for deciding whether the precautionary principle should be introduced .
Instead , the precautionary principle should come first .
My second question concerns the burden of proof .
I remember Margot Wallstrm being introduced as Commissioner in the Committee .
At that time , she was talking about the desire for a reversed burden of proof . In other words , a product ' s manufacturer is to demonstrate whether or not the product is hazardous .
I want to know whether this also applies in the document which the Commission has presented now .
. ( SV ) Thank you , Mrs Schrling .
These are two important questions , and it is good that I should be given the opportunity to clarify them .
It is not , therefore , the case that one must begin with a cost-benefit analysis .
The second question concerns the reversed burden of proof .
It is perfectly correct that we need to apply this in certain cases .
I have used chemical strategy as a good example of an area in which we need to do this .
It is , however , perfectly correct that , when it comes , for example , to chemicals , we must ensure that we obtain a reversed burden of proof .
Mr President , I believe that the precautionary principle needs to be quite radical in order to work , otherwise we shall always be confused by all the different interpretations possible .
I will give an example : a fungicide has been proven to cause babies to be born blind . It is therefore a teratogenic substance .
Very well , it is a fungicide , it kills off mould .
This teratogenicity has been demonstrated by just one English laboratory , perhaps because it is the only one that has carried out tests .
So I want to put this question to you . When human health is at stake , or there is the possibility that human health will be seriously affected , should we not perhaps carry out a cost-benefit analysis ?
The cost of a baby being born blind is too high ; there are no benefits that can compensate for this .
.
Naturally , it is not in the first place a question of cost ; there can in fact be an enormous cost to society if the decision to take a particular measure is avoided .
Nor must it be a case of sitting and calculating the value of a human life over and against the cost of taking a particular measure .
In those circumstances , consideration should be given to what is likely to produce the best result .
I cannot forbear telling you about an occasion when the expression cost-effective was used by people whom one cannot perhaps imagine using it , namely when I was on a visit to Africa .
At a hospice for AIDS patients , I met two Irish Catholic nuns who were caring for dying AIDS patients .
They were the first to say that , each day , they must think about doing what is most cost-effective because resources had to suffice for their poor patients there .
We must be very careful about how we use resources .
I believe we can learn something from this .
We must , of course , always ensure that we use our resources in the most effective manner and in such a way that they provide the broadest possible help .
As is also explained in the present communication , it is not therefore correct that one must first begin with some sort of cost-benefit analysis .
Consideration should be given to what science is offering in the way of knowledge , and this should be used as an important political tool for protecting the environment and people ' s health .
Mr President , it is a rare honour to be given a second opportunity to ask questions !
Commissioner , I would like to come back again to my first question , when I asked about the other Commissioners , for it may have sounded as though I was in jest .
Indeed you responded in kind , as I knew you would do .
I would like to draw your attention to something Mr Goodwill asked , that is to the connections we make between the precautionary principle and the world beyond the European Union .
I have good reason for asking this .
As you rightly said , the precautionary principle is needed in precisely those areas where , as yet , there is no scientific evidence .
That is exactly what it is all about , otherwise we might as well not bother talking about the precautionary principle here , Commissioner !
I am certain that we are going to have more conflicts , for example with the United States .
We should not be so nave as to think otherwise .
Ever since we signed this protocol in Montreal , we nonetheless have international recognition and a common definition written into a protocol dealing with the environment , health and trade .
This constitutes a good example , therefore .
We should be in no doubt that conflicts may arise in the future too , but we can now show that we do not use the precautionary principle arbitrarily .
We now have a number of guidelines for using the precautionary principle , and we have increased support among our respective peoples for using it , something which is clearly established in the present communication .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
Intergovernmental Conference
Mr President , I will begin by thanking the Portuguese Presidency and the Commission for all our recent very useful contacts .
Let me also once more thank my co-rapporteur Mr Leinen for our excellent collaboration .
The Intergovernmental Conference that is about to begin is important , both in a general sense and more particularly in view of the imminent enlargement .
The work of the Conference will determine the structure and method based on which Europe will be functioning in the twentieth century .
The first and substantive prerequisite for achieving that reform is the agenda based on which the Intergovernmental Conference is to begin its work .
This is because the Helsinki agenda is limited to consideration only of the three issues that relate in a fragmentary way to the structure and operation of just two of the European Union ' s institutional bodies .
I will not repeat which ones , because everyone knows .
Granted this , the new Intergovernmental Conference must not fail to include in its agenda issues which , properly addressed , would ensure the correct operation of all and not just some of the European Union ' s institutions .
Just as it also must not fail to include everyday issues which , for that very reason , are highly visible to the European public .
In its numerous debates and its reports so far the European Parliament has openly supported the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference .
All the same , whether or not more issues will be considered must in no way diminish the importance attributed by every Member State to the Intergovernmental Conference .
The same applies to the Commission and I would again like to thank Commissioner Barnier for his collaboration with the European Parliament and for the very constructive proposals he put before us .
Mr President , the Group of the European People ' s Party was not satisfied with the conclusions of the European Council in Helsinki .
It seemed to us that the agenda lacked content , because our group was thinking in terms of the Treaty and , specifically , the protocol on the Union ' s institutions .
The European Council in Helsinki itself approved enlargement involving 13 new Member States .
It is therefore inconsistent to open accession negotiations with 13 countries while contemplating a minimal reform .
We are therefore thinking in terms of the Treaty and we want the agenda of the next Intergovernmental Conference to allow for a deeper reform of the Union .
Having said this , Mr President , this Parliament is holding this debate today because we did not want to delay the start of the Conference .
In theory , we could have done so .
We could have voted on the 17th of this month and the Conference would not have been able to start on the 14th .
Mr President , I am very happy to be able to say this to the Portuguese Presidency because it has earned great respect in this Assembly .
The Portuguese Presidency shares many of this Parliament ' s aspirations and has committed itself to doing everything it can to ensure that the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference is widened to include other essential issues .
Mr President , I would like to point out that this aspiration on the part of the European Parliament is not an aspiration to gain benefits for the European Parliament itself .
However , the European Parliament will be reinforced politically by the Treaty resulting from this Intergovernmental Conference .
This is for one very simple reason : according to the agreements made in Helsinki , this Intergovernmental Conference will lead to issues , which are currently decided unanimously , being decided by a qualified majority .
Therefore , the number of issues decided by a qualified majority will increase .
It is already established within the Community acquis that those legislative issues which are decided by a qualified majority are also subject to codecision with Parliament .
Therefore , since the qualified majority will be extended , there will also be more codecision with Parliament .
However , this Parliament would not be fulfilling its role as a supranational European institution if it did not consider the political design of the Union .
That it is what we are doing .
We believe that , in the political design of the Union , other issues need to be dealt with .
These include , amongst others , the incorporation into the Treaty of security and defence issues , which have made much progress recently , but which must be incorporated into the Treaty .
Of course there is also the Charter of Fundamental Rights , and work began on its wording yesterday , which I believe has started very positively .
We are going to work seriously to ensure that the Europeans come to see being European as an advantage and that European citizens have certain fundamental rights which are connected to the Union ' s institutions .
We will talk about this on another day .
Today we must give the green light to this conference , and , for its part , the Group of the European People ' s Party , Mr President , is ready to give that green light .
Mr President , for the Socialist Group I can say we will be supporting the draft opinion put forward by the rapporteurs on behalf of the Constitutional Affairs Committee .
The Amsterdam leftovers is not a very good term , because they are very important subjects in themselves .
Let us call them the first three subjects of the IGC .
These first three subjects are very important but they are subjects which were explored in detail by our Member States during the last IGC .
They did not quite reach a conclusion on them but they certainly do not need nine months of further study .
They need a political deal .
In those circumstances it would be silly not to widen the agenda .
There are other issues that should fruitfully be looked at , especially before such a large widening of the Union to so many new countries .
Nobody is asking for a Christmas tree .
Nobody is asking for an IGC of the Maastricht style with a hundred or more subjects being debated .
However , there are six , seven , eight , nine perhaps , subjects which it would be very appropriate and useful to address .
There is time .
Remember the IGC that led to the Single European Act .
It lasted only five months .
The IGC that led to the enormous Maastricht Treaty lasted a year .
A year is ample time to address a large number of issues and it should certainly be enough to address the few crucial points that we wish to be added to the agenda .
I am pleased to see that the Commission shares our view .
The Commission has just published its opinion and it has done exactly what Parliament asked of it - to bring forward a comprehensive proposal complete with actual draft treaty articles .
I thank the Commission for doing that even if , of course , I do not agree with everything the Commission said .
I think there are some gaps in what they have put forward .
Nonetheless the Commission has provided a service and I pay tribute to Commissioner Barnier who is here with us today for doing that .
They have laid out for the public to see some of the crucial issues that we are going to have to address in this IGC .
That is all to the good .
The Parliament , the Council presidency and the Commission are pulling in the same direction for a wider agenda .
We should no longer be worried that the agenda for the IGC will be restricted .
That is one of the political conclusions that we must draw from the grave decision of 14 Member States yesterday virtually to freeze relations with a partner .
It makes it impossible for those same Member States , at the IGC , to fail to give operational meaning to the protection and advancement of fundamental rights .
It is vital that the IGC prepares the way to accept the installation of a fundamental rights regime within the Treaty .
One part of this is to improve the access of the citizen to the Court .
Another is for the Union itself to sign up to the European Convention .
Another is clearly for national parliaments and national political parties to find a reinforced role that they can play inside European Union affairs and to share the shouldering of responsibility to build European parliamentary democracy .
My group strongly welcomes the IGC and will be contributing to this Treaty reform process to the maximum possible extent .
Moreover , given that this opinion is quite important , we can still vote for it , and indeed , the majority of our group will be voting for it .
I nevertheless wish to stress the fact that it is quite distressing to see the lack of real interest in this reform .
The events in Austria make it crystal clear that we need a body or structure for democracy in Europe and we need to establish principles which provide bases all the Member States .
How , though , is the Union to be enlarged if we do not do the job properly now , i.e. before enlargement takes place ?
That is why we as a group are in favour of the Intergovernmental Conference .
We consider it to be indispensable and urgently needed and hope that it actually comes up with the goods that will enable us to carry out enlargement of the European Union in the not too distant future .
My group , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , noted with satisfaction that the Council Presidency is far from happy with the current state of affairs .
You can therefore rest assured that the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left is committed to seeing that the Union gets on with the tasks in hand .
The politics of closed doors and private discussions ; all that must be consigned to the past once and for all .
That is why we need transparency .
In this way , Europe would truly belong to the citizens and the Union would acquire an entirely new quality of democratic legitimacy .
There is another central issue relating to democracy that I would like to make clear reference to .
After all , what will the citizens say if we make a solemn announcement about rights to them but they are unable to take legal action in respect of these rights as individuals ?
No , to my mind this would only serve to deepen the credibility crisis facing the Union .
The poor turnout at the European elections really should have been warning enough for everyone .
What we need are visible rights for each and every citizen ; the Charter of Fundamental Rights must be made legally binding for all the citizens of the Union .
Of course , we are also talking about effectiveness of decisions and functioning institutions in a Union of 27 plus Member States .
We will not achieve this just by undertaking a mini reform , as the Council has resolved to do , and that is why all institutions must come under scrutiny .
We need bold change and , at the same time , we must take care to give the greatest possible attention to equal rights for the major and small States .
This is something I would stress , particularly with my being an MEP for one of the major Member States .
There is one final issue I would like to raise .
Parliament ' s opinion expressly demands amendments to the Treaty in the area of economic policy .
It is indeed the case that globalisation of national economies , but above all the introduction of the euro and the associated stability pact have led to a situation where we need to do more than analyse decision-making processes .
What we need most of all is to have the courage to undertake a critical examination of the Union ' s policies to date .
It is all about creating a socially just Europe .
A socially just Europe is still highly topical , for what we need to do as a matter of priority is place the fight against mass unemployment and poverty firmly at the centre of the Union ' s policies .
It must be adhered to in the interests of the fast , effective work of the conference , prior to enlargement .
Our group has therefore tabled a raft of amendments which , when taken together , form a real alternative resolution .
In them we say that the forthcoming IGC must look into a decision-making system that pays greater attention to national sovereignty .
The federalists imagine that they are thereby going to create unity through constraint , but this is a totally superficial concept .
Quite the opposite , in an enlarged Europe , Mr President , the standardisation imposed by the improper use of majority decisions can lead only to the whole thing exploding .
The Europe which results from this is not stronger but weaker , as it no longer knows what it is or what it is defending .
We are delighted today to see the progress this idea has enjoyed in certain circles , one which are still , unfortunately , outside the European Parliament and the Commission .
A flexible Europe , is a Europe which respects its national democracies , which relies on the support of its nations , its national patriotisms , instead of continually persecuting them .
It is this that gives us the determination to defend ourselves against external threats , not the constraining , convoluted decision making procedures which the Commission thought it could propose at the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference .
Mr President , I am speaking on behalf of the Italian Radicals and I would like to say to the President of the Council that he has seen what Parliament ' s opinion is .
This is the message that Parliament is sending to the Council .
This message must be very clear ; this is how we explain the way we shall vote tomorrow .
We shall give an opinion - which is technically and legally necessary - on convening the IGC on 14 February , but we shall give an unfavourable opinion of its content .
There is clearly a more ambitious goal .
Mr President , the President of the Commission was not being quite honest when he talked last week about the Intergovernmental Conference .
These are matters which we ourselves shall no longer be able to decide upon as voters and no longer be able to change on election day .
Brussels knows best .
Mr Prodi also announced greater transparency , but his draft regulation signals a clear backward step , and that is not only my assessment , but also that of the European Ombudsman .
There is also the desire to create a legal entitlement to confidentiality and to lock away documents of a kind which are at present publicly available in a range of Member States .
Under the banner of " progress towards transparency " , a range of documents is being locked away from the general public .
It is , of course , thoroughly Orwellian .
I want to ask Mr Prodi never more to comment on a proposal here in the House which is not , at the same time , available for critical scrutiny by the public .
In addition , we have a flexible clause concerning the efficiency of the negotiations and of the institutions , which may be used for any purposes whatsoever . It is therefore ...
( The President cut the speaker off )
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the Portuguese Council Presidency ' s account has given me the distinct impression that we are approaching this Intergovernmental Conference with well-considered ideas and a high degree of openness .
We as a European Parliament will use these opportunities to see that our issues are given the attention they deserve .
The preparations the Commission has made so far are on the right track , although they do not go far enough if the European Parliament ' s motions are anything to go by .
There is more to be said on that score .
It is crucially important for this Intergovernmental Conference to score a hat trick ; that of the power to act , democratic legitimacy and transparency .
In the end , it is only by having these three things in place that we will be able to achieve acceptance amongst the citizens .
At the same time of course , we need to create the power to act in order to facilitate the enlargement of the European Union .
If we have been having a different debate here in this Chamber today then that only goes to show how important this is .
The European Union must also have the power to act in the event of a government electing to impose a total blockade .
This is an important sign that majority voting is a crucial pre-requisite to the European Union ' s being able to function come what may .
This is particularly important where enlargement is concerned , and legislation and in relation to treaties , which entail changes being made to legislation .
Of course we also want to extend the European Parliament ' s corresponding powers in this area .
In addition , we as a European Parliament are going to have to take action in relation to Economic and Monetary Union , for there is a lack of supervision in this area .
The Finance Ministers behave as if they were in an intergovernmental meeting , when in the Ecofin Council and in the Euro 11 Council , which is an unacceptable way to go on .
Unlike Mrs Kaufmann , I am not in favour of extending supervision over the European Central Bank as I am an advocate of independence for the European Central Bank .
However , there must be an appropriate level of supervision on the political side .
The overall plan failed to do justice to any of this .
We must examine whether any changes are needed to this end which would fall within the scope of the Intergovernmental Conference .
The Portuguese Presidency has agreed to initiate deliberations on this matter , perhaps to extend the mandate .
There is another point I would just like to draw your attention to .
The European Union needs few , if any , new instruments , and it does not need any new competences .
What it does need are instruments that will enable it to put its competences into practice .
For this reason , we must ensure that the instruments have the effect of enabling us to carry out , on behalf of the citizens , the tasks we have already formally been set in the Treaty .
In my view , that is the most important issue this Intergovernmental Conference has to concentrate its energies on .
If we succeed in making progress here , then we will also be ready for the historic task of enlarging the European Union .
This is the crux of the matter .
Mr President-in-Office of the Council , I am confident that this will be tackled in a suitably positive manner under your tutelage .
You spoke to us about the start of your tour around the various capital cities and told us about the difficulties that some governments have in reaching a consensus in their own countries , and therefore in their parliaments .
I would like you to bear in mind that yesterday we had a very worthwhile day of discussions and dialogue with the representatives of the 15 national parliaments , which were represented by competent and exacting delegations .
The aim was not to draw conclusions - it was impossible to draw any - but the debate was certainly very encouraging .
However , we shall intensify our collaboration and our dialogue with the national parliaments for the entire duration of the Intergovernmental Conference .
We are counting on the Portuguese Presidency , we are counting on ourselves and we are counting on the Commission so that we can hold constructive and decisive debates on all of this at the Intergovernmental Conference .
Mr President , only a strengthened Europe can cope with enlargement .
Only a strengthened Europe is immune to political opportunists who exploit dissatisfaction .
That is why sweeping reforms are necessary and , hence , a widened IGC agenda .
The Finnish Presidency only listened to minimalist governments and , unfortunately , turned a deaf ear to this Parliament .
Portugal should not take a leaf out its predecessor ' s book .
It is of the utmost importance that the European Parliament and the Commission join forces for this IGC .
In many ways , they share the same interests and the same insights .
An essential component of this joint effort should , in any case , be this Parliament ' s right of assent to the forthcoming changes to the Treaty .
Of all priorities , this one is the most pressing .
What is the Commission ' s verdict on this ?
There is no reason whatsoever why representatives directly elected by citizens should be involved in talks at a lower level than the Commission .
Not only do we owe the sweeping reforms to the new Member States , but we owe them to ourselves .
If we allow Europe to be watered down as a result of enlargement , we will drown in our own political quagmire .
If there is a democratic deficit at the end of this IGC , then I say that the political groups which so wanted this haste will be accountable for this .
Because of the situation in Austria , this is a dark day for Europe .
It makes us realise that the victory of democracy is never definitive , and that we have to work to convince and keep on convincing .
In order to assert our fundamental values , they need to be laid down in writing , as a matter of urgency , and , beyond this IGC , I believe we owe Europe a constitution .
Mr President , the draft resolution we are now discussing requires , precisely as before , that the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference should have a broad agenda involving radical reforms of the institutions .
The forthcoming enlargement of the Union is used as an argument for this .
I am convinced that this is an error of judgement .
A federal and centralist EU which intervenes more and more in the government of the Member States is in actual fact less well placed for enlargement .
A flexible EU which concentrates on fewer but important areas and which respects national differences and national democracy has a better chance of embracing a significantly greater number of countries .
Paragraph D of the draft resolution requires a more coordinated and more open economic policy at EU level .
It is not , however , possible to talk about this without at the same time talking about monetary union .
This text says nothing about the major democratic and political problems involving monetary union and the European Central Bank . This is untenable .
If there is a desire to make the EU more democratic , the whole construction of EMU must be reconsidered .
The Central Bank must be placed under political control so that the direction to be taken by monetary policy may be governed by political objectives such as high employment and prosperity .
Public control of the Central Bank must be improved if this is to become possible .
The rigid and unsuccessful monetarism of the Stability Pact must be re-examined and discarded so that we might have a uniform policy which has prosperity as its primary objective .
Article 56 of the Treaty , prohibiting currency speculation or any interference in the free movement of capital , must be removed so that damaging currency speculation may be checked by means of political control .
In the majority of EU countries , there are now governments dominated by social democrats .
It is remarkable that , now they have the opportunity to do so , none of them is demanding any change in the direction taken by monetary union .
It also , of course , damages credibility when it is stated that monetary union could constitute a counterbalance to globalised capital .
The resolution requires the European Parliament to have increased influence over the Intergovernmental Conference .
It is , however , important to emphasise that the Intergovernmental Conference is and will remain a conference of the Member States .
It is the Member States ' parliaments , or people voting in referenda , who are to direct the development of the Treaty .
It is therefore out of the question that the European Parliament should be given any formal influence over the negotiation process or over ratification .
Mr President , the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed an essentially positive text , which I shall vote for , even if I personally had proposed a lot of amendments to broaden it .
Nevertheless , the events of the last few days show that all those who had made basic criticisms of the way enlargement and the revision of the Treaties have been planned were right .
This is what is and was meant by the call for a European Constitution .
And it is not a question of links with the past ; it is a question of prospects for the future , and nothing could be more wrong than the right and left taking a divided stand on this .
They rightly included the problem with monetary union and centralist government and presented a number of alternative democratic principles .
However , that is precisely what is happening .
I welcome Commissioner Barnier and the Portuguese Presidency here this afternoon .
On 14 February , we will see the launch of the IGC which is to be completed by the end of 2000 .
This is a big task but it can be done .
I think it is generally agreed here this afternoon across all groups that the Helsinki agenda will not be sufficient to cover the necessary reform to prepare Europe for enlargement .
In other words we need to go further than what has been referred to as the important " Amsterdam leftovers " .
In relation to the latter point , Ireland wants to maintain the right to nominate a full and equal Member of the Commission irrespective of the number of Member States joining .
We are prepared to consider re-weighting the votes in the Council of Ministers , provided that the larger Member States are willing to agree to every Member State having a full and equal Member of the Commission .
I feel I speak for many smaller countries when I make that particular point .
At the IGC , we would also need a debate on the possible divisions of the Treaties into two - into a policy area and an area on the Constitution .
We would accept the division of the Treaties providing it would not limit the control the smaller Member States had in the re-negotiation of the whole policy area of the Treaty .
In other words , if we are not represented fully in the Commission we will not have an input into policy discussions .
So we are watching that entire point extremely carefully .
We look forward to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and to seeing its contents .
The Treaty of Amsterdam , Mr President , has set the number of European Parliament Members at 700 and a debate is needed in this Parliament on how that number will be distributed among the enlarged Europe .
In any case , this emerges from the favourable schedule we decided upon .
I think that , under the present rules of the Treaties , the European Parliament would have little to gain from a policy of confrontation .
On the contrary , we should concentrate on working out persuasive proposals on the necessary reforms , in collaboration with the Commission whose own proposals are worthy of note .
We must use dialogue at every political level , including of course dialogue with the national parliaments .
That way , we will create a climate of cooperation which will be positive for the quality of the reforms .
They must therefore realise that such issues cannot be decided on the rationale of bargaining alone .
The issues to be dealt with at this Intergovernmental Conference are exceptionally sensitive .
It may be easy to come up with solutions , but what matters is how well those solutions will stand up in the long term .
I will mention two point that may create tension .
One is the balance which has so far been maintained between large and small countries .
Europe is not , nor can it become a classic federal state .
The solutions we opt for must be consistent with the fundamental rationale of the European Union , which is a union of states and peoples .
The other area of conflict is more difficult .
Owing to the imminent increase in membership , the bodies of the future European Union must become more effective .
This means that they must function more simply and more rapidly .
By its very nature , however , the European Union is , and will remain , a complex and convoluted multi-governmental institution .
Possibilities for faster and more simple operation do exist . Of course they do , but they are not unlimited .
If the limits are exceeded because of a one-sided quest for effectiveness , then the legitimising basis of the European Union will suffer .
I am , however , optimistic .
Mr President , the Intergovernmental Conference mandate needs to be widened .
The most important issue with regard to this is internal differentiation within the Union .
The Commission ' s current President , Mr Prodi , and the High Representative , Mr Solana , have put forward ideas along the same lines .
Last November , the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party adopted a position on internal differentiation within the Union when it proposed a system of concentric rings for Europe : the onion skin model .
In the next resolution on the IGC , Parliament must take a long and hard look at the questions of differentiation and flexibility .
Both enlargement and the achievements of integration will come under threat unless we can create a system of concentric rings , as proposed by the Group of the European Liberal Democrats and Reform Party .
My colleagues , Mrs Frassoni and Mr Onesta have already spoken , somewhat sceptically , about some aspects of the matter in hand .
I wish to add a voice of concern on the topic of subsidiarity , not just between Union and Member States but between Member States and their own internally self-governing regions .
This has been given inadequate attention and there are many things to be concerned about .
May I particularly draw attention to one of the implications of enlargement in respect of this Parliament .
A ceiling of 700 has been prescribed as the maximum that Parliament can safely become and remain a deliberative assembly .
Scotland , with a population of 5 million , has eight seats in this House at the moment ; Denmark and Finland , with the same population , have sixteen .
What will happen to a place like Scotland , which I represent here ?
It will become totally invisible !
A growing body of opinion in Scotland holds that view .
Mr President , to say that the European Union is at a crossroads is no doubt nothing new .
It has been said many times .
This time , however , it is true . We have established the single currency - which is extremely positive - and we are facing enlargement .
The question is if we will undertake enlargement whether we are prepared or not .
Will we enlarge with or without deep reform ?
That is the debate , and this question must be addressed in any discussion of the Intergovernmental Conference , its agenda or its method .
It is clear that the Council , for the moment , has not opted for enlarging with deep reforms in place .
That puts enlargement in danger .
It jeopardises any prospect of political union and , of course , it is difficult for the public to understand .
The Council must realise that , if we want the future of the European Union to involve a form of enlargement built on firm foundations , the next Intergovernmental Conference must go much further .
The Council is consulting us and Parliament is giving its opinion .
We want an Intergovernmental Conference , but not this one .
Must there be an IGC ?
Of course there must , but not this type of Intergovernmental Conference .
The agenda must go much further .
We must be much more daring with regard to the issues dealt with in the IGC and we must be much more transparent and much more democratic .
Being much more democratic means greater participation by the European Parliament and allowing the Commission to exercise even more - yes , more - its ability to take the initiative .
We must clearly set firm objectives .
The functionalist approach is over , for better or for worse .
The functionalist approach has brought us to this point .
Have we achieved results ?
As far as we are concerned , after producing the opinion expected from the Commission , according to this same Article 48 of the Treaty , we are pleased that the conference can thus begin earlier than anticipated .
We know , I know myself , that the weeks we have before us will be useful to us .
I would just like to make a few comments , after reading the draft opinion and after listening to the speakers on behalf of the various groups .
Firstly , ladies and gentlemen , the Commission understands the anxiety expressed by a number of you with regard to the scope of the conference agenda .
Indeed , it is in this spirit and in the framework of this mandate , which the Commission framed for its own opinion , but using all the terms thereof , plus everything between the lines .
We have not restricted ourselves to the three so-called leftovers , which is , in any case , an incorrect label .
I do not like the term ' leftovers ' any more than Richard Corbett does .
They are the first but they are not the only subjects , Mr Seguro , that the conference must deal with .
This proves that it is possible to go into issues in depth while respecting this mandate , by using the terms laid down in the mandate and all the openings which it offers .
However , these Council proceedings must be carefully prepared .
Throughout this conference , ladies and gentlemen , it is not only the status of the negotiators which is important , but the quality of what they will be saying .
I am sure that in this way the European Parliament will not be just an observer at these negotiations any more than the Commission will be .
We now await , therefore , with great interest , ladies and gentlemen of the House , your next opinion , in which you will specify Parliament ' s priorities and practical proposals for these negotiations .
Quite probably , our points of view and our positions will not always be the same .
There will probably be differences of opinion , that would be only normal .
The important thing is that we are consistent , and I have been committed to working towards this consistency ever since I accepted the position of Commissioner .
Our concern and our ambition , therefore , on a large number of subjects , is to be on the same wavelength and to carry these negotiations forward successfully .
Finally , I should like to make three additional comments , quite briefly , Mr President .
Such dialogue between the national parliaments , the European Parliament and ourselves is extremely important .
I have said , furthermore , that I would play my part by visiting each of the national parliaments .
Tomorrow , I shall be in London . In a fortnight ' s time , I shall be in Berlin .
In three weeks ' time , I shall be in Paris , and I shall continue this dialogue in one capital after another .
I feel this initiative you have taken is extremely positive , and I should like to thank you for taking it .
It will have to initiate these negotiations .
Concluding negotiations is not the same as concluding them successfully .
It is all the work which is going to be carried out together , under your guidance particularly , in the course of these few months , which is extremely important .
After having heard Prime Minister Guterres , the Minister of Foreign Affairs and yourself , I have confidence in the ambition of the Portuguese Presidency and the extremely proactive way in which it will conduct these negotiations .
It can count on the partnership of the Commission over the next few months .
Finally , let me repeat , we shall have a very great effort to make in order to popularise the topics of these negotiations .
These are difficult subjects , subjects relating to institutional policy and mechanisms which are not always easy to explain .
All the more reason for Members of the European Parliament , Ministers , Commissioners to devote a little time to explaining matters to the citizens , to public debate .
As far as the Commission is concerned , it will , ladies and gentlemen , be taking initiatives to inaugurate and orchestrate this public debate .
Cross-border services
I would first like to say how indebted I am to the Commission for seizing the initiative , and for the two draft directives we are discussing here today .
These have , in fact , clarified that the freedom to provide services must allow for third-country nationals to be taken on as employees of cross-border services and this without having to obtain work permits .
However , the European Court of Justice did not make specific reference to the issue of visa requirements and conditions of residence and consequently the Member States were unable to clarify this issue .
The situation as far as self-employed people are concerned is that current Community invested legal rights do not afford third-country nationals the right to provide cross-border services .
There is no doubt that we need a legislative act here .
Both draft directives seek to facilitate the freedom to provide services for EU enterprises .
It is not about establishing original rights for third-country nationals modelled on freedom of movement .
All provisions , i.e. issues relating to entry into the EU and to the law pertaining to residence rights , should be regarded as ancillary to this freedom to provide services .
Consequently , I do not see that there is any real obstacle to the Council ' s being able to move matters on quickly as far as these two draft directives are concerned .
I also believe that Parliament ' s proposed amendments should make it easier for the Council to adopt the directives as opposed to the Commission ' s proposal .
I am absolutely convinced that it will be easier for us to achieve consensus in the Council on this basis .
This system appears to us to be unsuitable in practical terms .
Likewise , the situation with regard to right of entry and residence rights should be clarified before the service provision card is issued , namely under the terms of an opposition procedure .
I believe this system is also more suited to practical needs .
However , we stand by our view that the maximum period of validity for the service provision card should be 12 months .
I would also just like to go into those of the proposed amendments that go beyond the proposed amendments put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market .
Of course I would add that I continue to support this committee ' s amendments , which they adopted unanimously .
I have even submitted four amendments on behalf of my group that largely relate to the correct way of quoting Council decisions .
Two amendments were cancelled by the services because the content has supposedly already been given consideration to in the report .
I withdraw the two other amendments - that is Amendment No 18 to the report on self-employed persons and Amendment No 21 on employed persons .
I can only urge the Conference of Presidents to reach agreement as quickly as possible on the correct way to proceed in matters of comitology , i.e. the correct way to quote .
This would make our rapporteur ' s life considerably easier in the future .
There is also a proposed amendment to both of Mrs De Palacio ' s reports .
On a final note , I would like to thank all those in the Committee who supported me in compiling these reports , which were far from easy to produce .
That is why he deserves special mention !
.
If you allow me , Mr President , I would like to go into the different amendments in more detail at the end of the debate .
May I say how the Commission welcomes the European Parliament ' s support for the two proposals on the freedom to provide services and on third-country employees , the topic of the debate .
I am extremely grateful for the work that Mrs Berger has put into these proposals which are politically sensitive and which constitute a legislative challenge .
I would also thank Mrs Palacio most warmly for her major contribution as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market .
The Commission particularly welcomes the suggestions made by Parliament for a more efficient procedure for the issue of service provision cards .
If the opportunity is created to apply for service provision cards for one or more , or all , Member States , the procedure would be more flexible still .
The Commission also supports the proposed flexible period of validity of the card .
However , I do not consider a three-month period of employment to be sufficient to prove that an employee is resident in a Member State .
The Commission also agrees with a provision for cases in which the contract of employment between the service provider and his employer is terminated at short notice .
An efficient procedure for issuing cards implies that companies which provide cross-border services can also exercise their rights in concrete terms on the basis of the internal market .
It seems over the top to us for other Member States to be given the option of systematically carrying out inspections systematically with a view to safeguarding public order before they issue cards .
Indeed , it should be possible for a third-country subject who has legal status in a Member State to be admitted to other Member States too .
That does not prevent these Member States from taking public-order measures within the framework of the proposed duty of notification .
Neither does the Commission accept the proposal that legal status in a Member State should be valid three months after the card has expired .
Following completion of the service , it is not acceptable for the third-country subject in question to remain any longer in the Member State in which the service is provided .
That is why the Commission supports Mrs Palacio ' s Amendment No 22 in both respects .
As far as the second proposal is concerned , the Commission appreciates the wish that it should be clear what is meant by someone who is self-employed and would therefore like to resolve this issue in the amended proposal .
These are a few introductory remarks concerning the key amendments .
I hope that , at the end of the debate , when all the speakers have contributed , I will once again be given the opportunity to elaborate upon the different amendments .
Mr President , tomorrow will see a large majority within the PPE Group vote in favour of the amendments put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market , as well as the amended version .
I propose to confine my comments to two areas .
Firstly there is the question as to what this directive is actually designed to achieve , that is achieve in the real sense .
There is the fact that we have to take the interests of the economy and also of the individual into account .
My comments start from the premise that we are talking about an upright individual in gainful employment .
Then there are the interests of the Member States , which , being on the receiving end , may have to start from the premise of a worst case scenario .
There is also an argument for introducing early notification obligations as well as having this card .
Alternatively , I might have no directive at all .
Neither outcome would be satisfactory .
Perhaps this is also why , as is rumoured to be the case , the Council has become bogged down in its negotiations on this as well .
We have been trying to reach a happy compromise between one interest - that of public order - and the other , that of finding the easiest possible solution .
We want to arrive at a solution where certain hurdles are created vis--vis the business world , but once these have been overcome , implementation is as easy as it possibly could be .
Therefore we want applications for the service provision card to be for one or more Member States .
Accordingly , the bureaucratic hurdles that have to be overcome would be lower in this instance .
Consequently , I too have to say that I am in favour of the amendments put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market .
Perhaps there was a certain amount of residual misunderstanding on the part of the Commission .
We want to achieve a completely flexible solution .
Allow me just to go very briefly into a second matter .
Most of those who have been working on the directive to date have been lawyers .
We all know that there are still various parts of the Treaty , some of them very old , which are still referred to as EC .
We are aware that this directive is founded on EC law and not on EU law .
However , before the elections we - the Council , the Commission , Parliament , the press , unions and companies that is - worked towards making the Europe we have today more comprehensible to the citizens .
We have expected the citizens to take on board the transition from EEC to EC to EU .
They have now got to grips with " EU " .
We would be doing neither ourselves nor the citizens any favours if we were to christen the product we are proposing to deliver " EC service provision card " and not " EU service provision card " .
It is the world of the EU that the citizens are interested in , this is the one that counts in their eyes .
I would urge the Council and the Commission to move in this direction .
Mr President it is later than any of us thought it would be when we were planning for this session so I shall be very brief indeed .
One of the reasons why we are late is because we spent time earlier today rightly stating the rooted opposition of this Parliament to any form of xenophobia or racism .
This directive is , of course , not in itself directly about that .
That is in itself also about avoiding being unduly restrictive towards the stranger simply because he or she is a stranger .
We welcome that , and because we think it makes a sensible and proper provision , we will support the most liberal version which we understand to be consistent with the law .
Nevertheless , I have tabled an amendment .
Mrs Berger , in your Amendment No 2 to Recital 6 , you mention legal security .
The first point on which we disagree is the duration of three months for the residency permit , since all that does is create legal insecurity .
If the validity of the service provision card expires on a certain date , it must end on that date .
Legal security requires this .
There are already some ex ante controls laid down in article 4 of the directive .
It therefore makes no sense to maintain that legal insecurity .
In the case of a non-Schengen state , in the last paragraph of Amendment No 22 , that possibility is contemplated , and is perfectly expressed , and I believe this provides greater legal security .
The discretional power of the State , which you propose in point e of your Amendment No 10 , seems to me to be inconsistent with the rest of your excellent report .
I would therefore ask Members to examine my amendment carefully , and I hope that tomorrow we will achieve a result .
On the face of it these two proposals appear to be implementing certain procedural changes to facilitate freedom of movement across Europe and to give effect to the recent court cases Mrs Berger referred to in her opening remarks .
However , in the case of the United Kingdom , we believe they go further than that in a manner which is unacceptable .
Partly this is substance and partly it is in respect of the legal base in regard to the special position of the United Kingdom .
Under the arrangements contained in the Treaties , the United Kingdom retains its border controls .
If there is to be a change to the present United Kingdom border arrangements , that change should be made by the United Kingdom Government and the United Kingdom Parliament and not en passant by the European legislative process .
For that reason , we shall vote against both these proposals .
These two proposals contribute considerably to the implementation of one of the four key principles of the internal market for the freedom to provide services .
The new regulation for cross-border services will doubtless improve both the functioning of the internal market and the competitiveness and power to act of enterprises .
Why do I think we need the directive so much ?
Three reasons and they are as follows : on account of the economic importance of third-country workers in the EU , in the interests of the competitiveness of enterprises and the proper functioning of the internal market .
Therefore , whilst I welcome the strict basic conditions , I would also call for the controls that are to be implemented by the Member States to be made as effective and simple as possible .
My last question relates to something people constantly approach me about and is therefore addressed to the Commission . Will the directive prejudice the accession negotiations ?
How is Article 1 to be interpreted and explained in your view , as this will have important implications , notably for the accession negotiations and for our country , which shares common borders with so many applicant countries ?
Indeed , they were still subject to endless bureaucratic immigration procedures of the Member States where a service had to be provided .
There are approximately thirteen million third-country subjects who reside within European territory .
I assume that , although the exact number of businesspeople included in this figure is not known , their number will most definitely not be low .
So , up to now , their access to the entire territory of the Union has not been regulated by Community legislation .
The aim of the two present proposals for a directive is to promote the free movement of services within the internal market by means of introducing the EU service provision card .
I have also paid close attention to the concerns raised by the Commissioner .
Having also studied the amendments submitted , I concluded that we can go along with these concerns to a large extent and that this will be reflected in our voting behaviour tomorrow .
May I , to finish off , thank Mrs Berger for the great care she has taken in studying the different amendments and for having , in that way , added an important degree of meaning to her report ?
I think that , with this report , we are , once again , one step closer to the realisation of the internal market .
Mr President , thank you very much for the opportunity you are giving me to go into the different amendments in more detail .
In the course of my speech , I would also like to address Lord Inglewood regarding the remark he has just made .
Regarding the first proposal on third-country employees , the Commission is prepared to adopt Amendments Nos 2 , 11 , 12 , 15 , 16 and 22 .
Amendments Nos 7 and 8 are acceptable too , provided the situation of posting is established in the Member State in which the service provider is established .
The Commission also agrees with Amendment No 11 , except for the proposed period of previous employment of only three months , as I explained just now .
We also welcome Amendment No 13 insofar as , as a result of this , the card ' s area of applicability is extended from one Member State to all Member States .
In terms of comitology , Amendments Nos 14 and 21 also apply in part , insofar as the rights of Parliament are concerned .
I regret that the Commission has found Amendment No 10 to be unacceptable as far as the three-month period and the role of the Member State in which the service is provided are concerned .
In this respect , the Commission supports Amendment No 22 , as I have already mentioned . The other amendments are unacceptable .
Personally , I am rather in favour of the term " EU service provision card " which is proposed in Amendment No 1 , but the Treaty of Amsterdam does not allow this .
As Amendment No 18 refers to Directive 96 / 71 concerning the minimum wage which is already in force , no change is necessary .
Acceptance of Amendment No 17 by the Commission would mean that a simple duty of notification would apply if no valid card is issued .
Surely this is contrary to interests of public order within the Member States .
Amendment No 19 is also unacceptable , given my thoughts on Amendment No 10 .
The Commission has the same opinion of similar amendments to the second proposal .
I would like to add that Amendment No 10 to that proposal is wholly acceptable .
As far as Amendment No 15 on the definition of the term " self-employed " is concerned , the Commission will , as I have already remarked , provide an adequate solution to accommodate the objections lodged .
I would now like to move on to Lord Inglewood ' s remark .
This applies , as already stated , to the United Kingdom and it also applies to Belgium , where it was recently of relevance .
With regard to the remark made by Mr Karas , I am under the impression that he is talking about the possibility of people from Poland being used as employees in his country .
The Commission would like to propose finding a solution to this problem which would then apply to all companies based in the European Union which employ staff from non-EU countries .
The question is , furthermore , one of whether the two cases should be treated in the same way .
In my opinion , this is an issue which belongs to the debate on the enlargement of the European Union and perhaps not to the present debate .
On behalf of the Commission , I would be more than happy to make myself available to Mr Karas in case he would like further information on this genuinely important point .
I will keep myself free in this connection .
Finally , I would like to thank Parliament for the very constructive debate on the key aspects of these proposals and , in particular , of course , the rapporteur , Mrs Berger .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Bolkestein .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Court of First Instance
Mr President , I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on a report , which , on reading it , gives the impression of simply confirming and accepting the Council ' s draft decision .
For this reason , I would like to express my appreciation for the work carried out by Vice-President Marinho .
Behind these principles , Mr President , lies the justice system .
However , justice delayed is justice denied , and we must reflect on this notion .
The working document prepared by the Court itself contains alarming information .
For this reason , the draft reform , which has been drawn up by the rapporteur , Vice-President Marinho , is to be welcomed .
We have to offer solutions which , while provisional , help to provide a faster and more effective system of justice .
These are two of Vice-President Marinho ' s ideas and , I believe , they are seconded by the whole of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market .
The first is that greater resources should be given to judges of first instance , and that they should be given one more rfrendaire .
The second is that the translation services of the Court of First Instance and the Court of Justice should be separated .
At the moment , the Court of First Instance has to wait a very long time for its judgements to be translated .
Since we are talking about the Intergovernmental Conference , let us consider just two points .
The first concerns this Parliament .
I believe that it is well worth insisting that we wish to participate more with regard to the Court of Justice , even in the appointment of judges .
Above all , we wish to see an extension of the competences of the Court of Justice , hand in hand with its capacity to fulfil its obligations , in other words , its resources .
And I refer once again to the declarations which we have heard in recent days .
Mr President , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and welcome the contents of this report .
It has caused me to reflect on two problems which have come to me recently in my own constituency .
Both concern cases with decisions pending before the Court of Justice .
The first relates to a large suspension bridge and whether or not tolls on it should be subject to VAT .
The decision could have huge implications for our local economy .
Secondly there is a lady within thirteen weeks of retirement who is desperate for news of a decision that will affect seriously her financial circumstances in old age .
These are just two examples of real life problems behind delays in Europe ' s system of justice .
Delays in justice can mean personal difficulties and even tragedy .
This is not to say that all of our own national systems of justice are perfect , but all too often they may be waiting for a preliminary ruling from the European Court .
Amongst the statistics there is a worrying upward trend in the time taken to deal with preliminary references .
This should not be taken as a criticism of the Court or of its staff , rather of the Court ' s structure and its lack of resources in a growing European Union .
The proposals in this report are very welcome as an interim palliative , but Europe is a legal construction , its courts are central to its proper functioning .
In the face of coming enlargement the IGC must deal with fundamental reform and restructuring of the court system .
Otherwise we will all , as elected representatives , be faced with more and more clamour from our citizens who are not getting access to quick and effective justice .
Mr President , I too would like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report .
I also fully endorse his findings , in which , in particular , he suggests increasing the number of consultants for judges at the Court of First Instance and providing the latter with its own translation service .
However I also believe that the reforms must go further than those we are to adopt here .
I am also aware that we are probably also going to have to do something about the European Commission ' s inclination to renationalise competition decisions and transfer them back to national level .
It seems to me that we need to give this some thought , as these cases will no longer fall to the Court of First Instance of course but to the Court of Justice as draft decisions .
We need to consider how we will deal with situations of this kind .
Where possible , one should also have the opportunity to present draft decisions in competition cases to the specialist chamber within the Court of First Instance .
On a final note , I too believe that OLAF requires monitoring under rule of law .
As things stand , OLAF is in a vacuum and can do as it pleases .
It is essential for OLAF to be monitored by a court .
The only court that could reasonably do so would be the Court of First Instance .
That would be another way of spurring the reform process on .
Mr President , I would like to begin by joining those who congratulated the rapporteur on this work .
The European Union is a system based on law .
It must therefore have a system of courts to enforce that law .
The evidence of the court is that that is happening now and it points to steps which can be taken now to alleviate the problem .
However , as Mr Marinho has pointed out , more is necessary , but that has to wait for the IGC ,
In my own country , mythology tells of the teeming hordes of faceless Brussels bureaucrats but it never mentions the number of European judges .
There are less than three dozen at the apex of the European judicial order - hardly an overload given the responsibility of their tasks at the heart of the European legal system .
This has been compounded , so some who advise me believe , by the Rules of Procedure in the French courts which make it well nigh impossible for non-French nationals to proceed against the French Government .
Certainly it is perceived de facto to be impossible .
This contrasts most unfavourably with the United Kingdom courts where Spanish fishermen successfully brought an action against the United Kingdom Government in circumstances which were very comparable .
What is happening in France , Mr President , appears prima facie to be a case of discrimination against other EU nationals on grounds of nationality and as such to be in breach of the Treaties .
I would be grateful if the Commissioner could confirm in his final remarks that he will do this .
Mr President , on behalf of Commission President , Mr Prodi , I would like to respond as follows .
The unease is justified .
It has been said more than once : justice delayed is justice denied .
The Commission sympathises with these considerations . In the light of this sympathy , I would like to continue my response as follows .
In other words , once this study is complete , the Commission will issue its opinion as soon as possible .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow .
Exceptional financial aid to Kosovo
I have been informed that the rapporteur has been delayed for several minutes .
I propose that we start the debate immediately .
He will join us and speak as soon as he arrives .
I therefore give the floor immediately to Mr Bourlanges , in his capacity as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets .
An urgent request has been referred to us , and we approve it .
We have been asked for EUR 35 million .
There are reactions to this in some quarters since it does not comply with the liberal canons of beauty which stipulate that there must be no financial intervention in order support an administration .
This is not our opinion .
Our opinion is that it is vital to contribute to setting up an administration in Kosovo and that it is by no means absurd to contribute directly to the payment of public employees in this region .
Indeed that is something extremely useful that we could have done in Russia throughout the 1990s to prevent the disintegration of that state .
The second important problem is that we have been asked for payments , the donors have made commitments and , obviously , we are the only ones actually paying .
The other parties are not paying .
We wish to see an end to this one-sided situation regarding requests for financial aid .
We would like the Commission to make commitments on the amendments we are proposing in regard to this .
We would like to link the granting of all aid to the availability of the amounts due from the other donors .
This is not in order to limit or be stingy with our financial contribution to Kosovo but , quite the contrary , to ensure that our contribution is being matched by the contributions of other donors .
From that point of view , the proposed facility is a two-phase aid facility and the second tranche must be released as soon as the donors have made clear their interest .
Finally , we have three questions for the Commission in this regard . Firstly , we need the Commission to give us , on a regular basis , the list and the amounts that other donors contribute .
When we come to pay , we want to know what the others are paying .
Secondly , we wish to see an exact progress report on the invitations to tender and the schedule for their implementation .
During the budgetary procedure we were told that the funds for Kosovo must be voted on as a matter of urgency yet , according to our information , no invitation to tender has been published or initiated to date .
This is serious , since it holds up the whole process of reconstruction in Kosovo .
Finally , and this follows on from what I have just said , we would like the Commission to inform the Committee on Budgets on a very regular basis , monthly , regarding progress on payments made .
We have Commission documents which speak of firm commitments .
It is not firm commitments that we need , just plain commitments would suffice , and we need to know what has actually been paid and , more especially , what has not been paid .
Kosovo has suffered far too much from delays in payment .
No one really knows what these elections are to lead to and what kind of parliament is to be formed as a result .
No one knows what kind of authority this parliament is going to have vis--vis UNMIK .
In other words , there are quite a few imponderables that we are not being informed about and that others are presumably unable to get to grips with properly either .
Of all people , it is the Albanians , who are now being integrated into the transitional council , who ought in fact to have a little more idea as to what is in store for them .
I would like to list again the things that have actually already been accomplished and that we can be pleased about .
Administration-wise there are now 34 tax inspectors .
That is excellent news !
It should also be noted that of the 19 departments , 4 already have administrative leadership , which represents an improvement on the situation there hitherto .
There is something else that we are keen to develop and this is very important for a state under the rule of law .
Another positive development I would like to remind you of is the fact that the old UCK is now bound up in the reconstruction of the country .
I believe that is a good thing
The EU Commission cannot pay for everything .
It is responsible for reconstruction down there and for the Fourth Pillar , but it cannot constantly be called upon to pay Mr Kouchner ' s outstanding bills .
We have a huge task in reconstruction and we will be judged according to how we fulfil it .
Mr President , I would like to offer a few explanations .
In a debate , there is always the danger that we will repeat much of what has already been said .
However , I would like to concentrate on two points .
Firstly , I would like to make it very clear that the Union is the main contributor to aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo .
I would like to point out to Mrs Albright that what we have read recently in the press is true , and that figures do not lie .
Let us make this clear , however much some people may not wish to believe it .
I would like to say to Mrs Pack that I am in complete agreement with her when she says that the Commission should insist that other contributors fulfil their commitments .
I would like to appeal to those Ministers not to cast doubt upon that agreement which was really very difficult to reach .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , please excuse my late arrival , but this other political issue is still on the agenda today , more is the pity .
The things that have given us cause for criticism are not so serious as to stop us wanting to help the people there .
However , this does not mean that we will forget the criticism in the process .
Of course we would be a lot further on in our procedure if the Council administration had not forgotten to inform the European Parliament in good time and to provide it with official documents .
Only then would we have been able to conduct proper and searching discussions .
I urge the administration to see to it that this does not happen in future .
It is only because there are people in need that we are prepared to overlook this .
However , we must be sure to introduce certain conditions here .
Secondly , even if the Commission and the Council adopt a different position on this because they see real problems there , we believe that the other donors must also fulfil the obligations they have entered into .
This mission is being conducted under the auspices of the United Nations and we cannot have a situation where the European Union is the only one to fulfil its obligations .
It is no less incumbent on the other donor countries to fulfil their obligations within this timeframe , in the interests of the persons affected .
This is another example of the fact that the European Union is prepared to help and to give money but the political leadership lacks coherence .
We have so many coordinators , who , in turn , are responsible to so many employers , that we will soon have to employ a coordinator for the coordinators .
It makes no sense at all for the various international institutions and associations to be engaged in competition amongst themselves rather than investing all their energies in helping the people on the ground !
If the Alliance is still active in that region , it is with the same objective .
We must work to ensure that , in this province and indeed throughout the Balkans generally , the rule of shopkeepers follows the rule of the warlords .
It is true that economic aid is , in this respect , certainly an essential element to the scope of action afforded those people active at the grass roots level .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , firstly I would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur , Mr Brok , for his report .
If the Council had worked as quickly as Mr Brok then we would certainly be a great deal further on .
The Council ' s failings in this respect are a source of much regret .
What is to be done with this money ?
I would like to highlight the issue of human rights .
The West fought for human rights in Kosovo and what is happening there today ?
Every single day there are attacks on Serbs , on the Roma , on Bosnians , but attacks are also still carried out on Albanians .
These are events and situations that cannot be tolerated .
I hear - whether it is true or not I do not know - that the Serbs are even continuing to operate a mine in the Serbian sector of Kosovo .
There are , at the very least , rumours that Serbian militias are up to their old tricks again .
It is irrelevant , as far as I am concerned , as to whether it is Serbs , Roma , Bosnians or Albanians who are threatened or killed in Kosovo .
It is also irrelevant , in my view , as to who is working towards separation and division in Kosovo .
What is all-important , to my mind , is that the bodies we are financing should achieve what we want them to achieve , a multi-ethnic Kosovo that is , a Kosovo where people can live together .
We need more police officers , as we have nowhere near enough .
We need an independent judiciary - this would certainly be difficult to establish - , we also need funds for the office of High Commissioner for Human Rights .
All of this needs to happen , and quickly too .
If we do not provide rapid assistance then the situation will deteriorate and new conflicts and crisis situations may arise .
That is why I believe that we were right to take action quickly , to recognise the urgency of the situation and make funds available .
.
( ES ) Mr President , I would like firstly to thank the Members , and especially the rapporteur , for the speed with which they have dealt with this issue .
This will no doubt allow us to release the funds for Kosovo quickly and deal with the concerns which both Mr Swoboda and Mrs Pack have mentioned .
I think I have seen three types of fundamental concern in tonight ' s debate .
Firstly , although much progress has been made , and we could mention customs administration , bank administration or tax administration , it is true that we must continue to move forward .
However , in moving forward , what should we be financing ?
This is the first point on which there is a certain amount of disagreement .
In some of your amendments you propose that we limit further the type of bodies which can be provided with Union funds , for example , Amendments Nos 3 and 5 .
In our view , however , in both respects , greater room for manoeuvre should be left to the administration of the United Nations which , on the ground , is more aware of the reality than we are .
We believe that to prejudge , at the moment , where resources should be directed , would create more practical difficulties .
In short , we should put our faith in those parties who , in these areas , are better equipped than us to make certain decisions .
Is the Commission making an excessive effort while others are failing to cooperate ?
Some of the amendments in your report pose this question .
For example , Amendments Nos 1 , 2 and 4 .
I would say to Mr Bourlanges and to those who have raised this issue , that this is not the fundamental problem , although we recognise it totally .
I would say the same about Amendment No 2 , which we would also accept with a slight modification , since the idea seems to us to be basically correct .
Amendment No 4 is of a similar nature . On this specific point , we can perhaps offer Mr Bourlanges greater satisfaction .
We have already spoken to the Council so that it might include a Commission statement in its decision , establishing this element of conditionality .
A third problem has been raised by Mrs Dhrkop with regard to the multiannual programmes .
I would remind you that these projects are multiannual .
The programmes clearly have to take the annual budgetary contributions into account .
Lastly , I would like to make some observations on the requests for additional information which have been addressed to us .
The Commission can commit itself to regularly informing Parliament of the invitations to tender which are published .
We also wish to see these publicised on the Internet , so that there may be maximum transparency with regard to this specific point .
A second point which I would like to comment on is the remaining information which may be of importance to Parliament with regard to the provision of macroeconomic assistance .
I do , however , have one small concern , when I hear the Commissioner on the subject of the commitments made by their services in the Committee on Budgets .
But , if I understand what Mr Solbes Mira says correctly , then this undertaking was only a tentative one .
Commissioner , an agreement is an agreement .
Can you confirm the agreement made by your services in the Committee on Budgets , yes or no ? Or are you going to drop this proviso , thus breaking the undertaking made to us ?
No , Mr Bourlanges , I think it is a substantive problem .
The problem is how in practical terms to implement the compromise which we accepted .
What I proposed to you , and what I still say , is that the Commission will make a statement , in the Council Decision , something like this :
The exact amount and timing of implementation of the second tranche will be decided in due course taking into account developments in Kosovo ' s external financing needs and contributions from other bilateral donors .
With this , we believe that we are totally in line with what we agreed .
I am simply asking the Commission to come and inform the Committee on Budgets before implementing the second tranche .
I agree , absolutely . We shall do so .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow .
ALTENER
Mr President , I would like to thank Mr Langen - although he is not actually here - for the work he has done to carry through the programme both in Parliament and in the Council .
The project has been long and problematic .
In future too , there will be a need to invest heavily in research into the use of renewable energy sources .
Although there is much that is good about the new directive , it is nonetheless not without its defects .
One example is the use of peat .
Peat cannot be classified as belonging in the same group as fossil fuels .
If peat cannot be classified directly as a renewable , non-fossil energy source , it must form its own class , especially as far as the issue of environmental taxation is concerned .
It is not right that peat should be judged according to the same criteria as , for example , coal .
The development of renewable energy sources is a partial solution to ending the Union ' s dependence on imported energy .
Research is particularly essential with regard also to the EU ' s next round of enlargement .
Dependence on imported energy affects worst of all many Eastern European countries , whose economic structure is still suffering from the dependence created in the times of the Soviet Union on Russian energy .
The EU must adhere to the Kyoto Protocol on climate .
We are all concerned about the environment and our children ' s future .
The share that renewable energy sources have in total energy production must be increased , but it has to be done in a rational manner .
We have to remember that our basic energy production cannot be based on renewables for a long time to come .
For that we need a form of energy production that does not harm the climate : nuclear energy .
Mr President , on behalf of the PSE Group , I welcome the fact that we have reached an end result in the conciliation procedure for the ALTENER II Programme .
Firstly , however , I would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur , Mr Langen , for the truly excellent work he has done on this report .
I would also like to thank the leader of the delegation in the Conciliation Committee , Mr Provan .
For as Mr Langen said just now , we certainly had a tough fight on our hands in the Conciliation Committee .
However , we can see today that the conciliation end result quite clearly bears the trademark of the European Parliament throughout .
This is not satisfactory - I would like to make that quite clear .
However , we agreed to this compromise because it was important to us to enable this programme to be launched very soon indeed .
For in the course of the next few years , the proportion of renewable energy sources is to double , accounting for at least 12 % of energy consumption .
This is the European Union ' s declared aim .
That being the case , since ALTENER is the only EU programme to have the exclusive aim of promoting renewable energy sources , it will certainly be have a key role .
In the first place , this new five-year programme will entail extending the actions in the ALTENER I programme .
We now have available to us a working paper from the Commission ' s services on a breakthrough campaign , which is in fact a crucial element of this Community strategy .
It contains plans for financial support for all the main renewable energy sources sectors .
It is very important for this ALTENER programme to go hand in hand with this campaign and to support it .
The overall investment costs for this campaign are estimated to be approximately EUR 30 billion .
75 % -80 % of this is to come from private sources , and this will be supplemented by public funds from the Member States and from the regions .
Mr President , Commissioner , I would like to thank Mr Langen for his excellent work in this important matter .
The conclusion reached regarding conciliation with regard to the Altener programme as put forward by the Conciliation Committee is , after all the difficult phases it has been through , at least satisfactory .
Most of Parliament ' s amendments have been taken into account and the fact that the programme has seen its total funding rise to EUR 77 million must be seen as positive .
The Union has ambitious goals with regard to increasing the use of renewable energy .
There is very little in the way of appropriations to meet these targets , however .
The appropriations are needed for pilot projects , research , information exchange and also to cultivate more positive attitudes towards the use of renewable energy .
The main responsibility for increasing the use of renewables is to be borne by the Member States .
This programme will hopefully encourage Member States to act with greater determination to increase the use of renewable energy .
However , in the future , the Union will also have to increase its own input in promoting the use of renewable energy and ensuring that renewable energy is launched without obstacles on the market .
Promoting the use of renewables is especially important for the environment .
The Union cannot achieve its environmental goals unless the use of renewables is actively stepped up .
Renewable energy sources lower dependency on imported energy and their increased use boosts competitiveness .
Europe will also be able to achieve a leading position in the industry that supplies equipment needed for the exploitation of renewable energy .
We should also remember that the use of renewable energy sources has a positive impact on regional development and employment .
May I also venture to raise the matter of peat ?
Peat is not mentioned in the list of renewable energy sources .
However , it is important , at least in Finland , as a sustainably used , slowly renewable energy source .
I hope that in the future it can be included in the list of renewables .
It is interesting for me , as a new Member of Parliament , to see that the budget provides for hundreds of millions of euros annually for tobacco cultivation .
This is a limited sector of the economy which creates hardly any jobs and is not competitive on the world scale .
In contrast with that , I see the amounts allocated for renewable energies , which are not only an ecological element but which look set to undergo considerable economic expansion .
In order to ensure that at least 50 % of the energy mix comes from renewable energy sources , it is not enough to deal with a few hot spots that will be more profitable in the short term .
Mr President , may I commence by complimenting Mr Langen on his work .
The activities of the ALTENER programme will promote renewable energy sources and I believe that such programmes merit financial support at the developmental stage as they offer enormous commercial potential in the future .
For this reason , I am particularly pleased to see the monies focussed on projects by small and medium-sized enterprises .
The internationally agreed objectives for reducing emissions cannot be achieved by these programmes alone . In this regard , it must be remembered that energy policy remains within the national remit .
It is imperative that national governments lend their full support to improving energy efficiency and developing renewables .
I am pleased that Ireland has recently announced that it is going to spend  125 million on the development of an environmentally sustainable energy sector .
I would hope that the contribution of ALTENER would lead to more initiatives .
As the final text rightly states , actions such as these can play a role in reducing regional disparities .
I can vouch that I have already received significant interest in the ALTENER programme from my own constituency of Leinster , a significant portion of which falls within Ireland ' s only Objective I region .
I support all efforts to close the gap in economic development in infrastructural provisions , including the energy sector .
In short , we face a major challenge in meeting our commitments on limiting greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector under the Kyoto Protocol , while at the same time promoting growth in our economies .
ALTENER will make a valuable contribution to the combined efforts of the Member States .
Mr President , Mr Langen , ladies and gentlemen , as our rapporteur mentioned , we are coming to the end of a long and difficult process of conciliation with the Council on the ALTENER programme .
Mr Langen mentioned that the implementation budget proposed by the Council was initially FF 74 million , whereas the Commission proposed 81.1 million , a figure which the European Parliament supported .
An initial conciliation meeting was not successful , because the Council would not at that time accept an increase of EUR 1.9 million .
We could not agree with a proposal like this , which challenged the authority of the European Parliament .
A second round of conciliation achieved an increase of EUR 1.1 million in order to reach this compromise figure of 77 million .
In fact , renewable energies unquestionably provide a way of achieving these objectives .
This programme , together with the SAVE II programme , integrating the environmental aspect into energy policy , establishes a foundation for a real Community strategy to achieve clean energy while reducing our dependence .
And I shall end , of course , by congratulating Mr Langen , our rapporteur , on his work , as well as all the members of the committee and of the Conciliation Committee .
.
All of this will provide greater coordination , transparency and efficiency in our energy programmes , into which we will also have to incorporate the SAVE programme , which we will be discussing soon .
I would also like to recognise the reasonable and flexible action of the Council .
SAVE
Madam President , I would like to thank the Council and Commission for a useful and thorough conciliation procedure and one that was good-tempered all round , which is not always the case .
I am happy to say that I can regard the end result of conciliation as very satisfactory for Parliament as the joint text has incorporated all its amendments either in full or in a re-worded form .
The financial amount finally allocated to the programme is also a considerable improvement on the Council ' s proposal at second reading which we found completely unacceptable and we have made quite a lot of progress there .
I therefore propose that this House agree to adopt the proposals on SAVE and the conclusion at the conciliation at third reading .
I would like to remind the House that at second reading Parliament adopted this report containing eight amendments , including a re-instatement of the Commission ' s original budget .
The Commission accepted five of the proposed amendments including the budgetary allocation and I thank the Commission for their continued support on the budget during the conciliation procedure as what the Council had proposed was unacceptable .
During the procedure , agreement was reached on the studies and actions to devise , implement , complement and assess the Community measures .
Compromise wordings were agreed for five other amendments including legislative and non-legislative measures and the inclusion of local energy centres and , very importantly , the energy audit systems in the review of progress on energy efficiency .
I hope that you will all agree that this is important progress .
The issue of the financial envelope was staunchly defended by Parliament in the face of the Council ' s very meagre opening offer .
In the event we had to have several meetings before the Council finally increased this to a substantial amount .
This was an important consideration for us .
I would like to say however that it is , and has always been , a very modest budget and therefore the funding for this programme is more symbolic than real .
Funding for energy saving still comes primarily from the Member States .
We have to bear that in mind when approving this programme .
Where the Community can step in is to put the local activators in touch with each other so that they can actually not re-invent the wheel in every region .
We have an important part to play in the Community in the European Union in this regard .
SAVE is the only Community-wide programme dedicated to promoting the rational use of energy .
It focuses on non-technical elements , helping to build energy efficiency infrastructure , and the purpose of the programme is to create an environment in which investments and energy efficiency will be promoted .
Here we need to realise that there is also a market opportunity in industry for energy savings .
We have heard a lot about difficulties of competition in renewable energies but energy efficiency saves money for business , saves money all round in fact and therefore it should be non-problematical .
It is something that we can all support .
We could do rather more , considering that we have made great commitments in reducing CO2 and greenhouse gases and to reduce dependence on energy imports .
We are not taking the kind of action that the citizens want to see .
We are not making the connection so that the citizens can actually do something concretely either at home or in their offices or in industry to support action against global climate change .
If we could communicate this it would be a very interesting thing to do .
I would like once again to thank all who helped in this conciliation process .
This improvement has been achieved with fresh funds , as we said at the time , and it has been achieved while safeguarding this Parliament ' s prerogatives and competences .
From the point of view of the Commission , in this interinstitutional game , I believe that this is important and I am very happy to highlight it .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow .
CULTURE 2000
Madam President , I actually feel that we ought not to have continued discussing this because we said everything there was to say in the last debate .
Unfortunately , there has been no change in the way that the Council always talks about culture but fails to allocate any money for it .
We have the feeling , and are in fact convinced , that the Member States would be more than happy to withdraw the things they wrote in 1992 in the Treaty of Maastricht .
For no one is very keen to spend money on culture .
Sadly that is the case and we must face facts .
I would like to thank the rapporteur , who really has chipped away tirelessly at this monumental task , in conjunction with the Commissioner of course .
We simply had to take on board the fact that whilst we actually attained our goal in terms of content , of course the same could not be said of the financial aspect .
One seems powerless in a dialogue of this kind , where the other party actually has to reach a unanimous decision .
What kind of horse-trading system is this ? Certainly not a fair one !
There are always people who are in a position to reject everything and there we are on the other side , begging for a little more money for culture .
It is downright scandalous what goes on !
It is an awful sort of horse-trading , based on unequal positions !
Nevertheless , we are pleased that this programme has turned out in the way that we wanted it to .
It lives up to the expectations the citizens have of us .
If one puts all the money together and creates synergy then one can be a tiny bit satisfied , but then only a tiny bit .
It is my hope that we will be able to achieve a lot of synergy with a little money .
Madam President , I agree with the fine words with which the rapporteur began his intervention and I must add that , during the conciliation procedure , I was personally a little disappointed with the Council .
On the other hand , it has shown complete intransigence with regard to the funds requested by this Parliament , which were minimal anyway .
Incidentally , this last point would be unfair to fourteen Members of the Council , since it was just one , the Netherlands , which was responsible for that intransigence .
It has once again been demonstrated that conciliation is incompatible with the demand for unanimity in the Council .
This demand makes conciliation almost impossible and even affects the dignity of the parliamentary institution .
By taking action in the field of culture , we are directly contributing to the construction of a European soul , especially given the fact that the sub-programmes which make up " Culture 2000 " are superb .
In recent years , these have been amongst the programmes most eagerly accepted by the youngest and most dynamic citizens of the European Union .
Congratulations !
Madam President , Commissioner , rapporteur , I would like to start by thanking Mr Graa Moura most warmly for the tremendous efforts he has put into the discussion of this Culture 2000 programme .
It is also of great importance to citizens .
We should , above all , not lose sight of this .
Today , we have arrived at the end of a long road .
I would nonetheless like , as others have done , to touch upon the procedure , which is unclear and , above all , unwanted .
Codecision and unanimity do not go hand in hand .
They are like a snake biting its own tail .
There is little room for negotiation if one of the parties states beforehand : anything is open for discussion , as long as the budget stays fixed .
As it happens - and I would like to add this for the sake of the Netherlands - negotiations on this matter have taken place at an earlier stage .
The result is 30 % growth , so we are not completely dissatisfied with the result .
I would like to stress that culture is not only funded from this particular pot .
Culture does not only fall under the banner of culture but also under that of all kinds of other areas .
A great deal of money for culture is also set aside in the Structural Funds , and this is something which we should definitely consider and bear in mind .
Fortunately , I am on the Committee on Regional Policy . So I myself will make sure that this aspect receives due attention .
I think that we have also opted in favour of allowing the budget to be of an adequate size because , if it happens to be cancelled , then surely this does not benefit the citizen .
I have always given the rapporteur my backing in this respect .
However , I do think that it is necessary , as he always states too , that , in the next IGC , changes will be made to codecision , when unanimity will no longer be necessary .
This is especially important to smaller linguistic areas . I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and also Mrs Reding for Culture 2000 .
All that remains for me to say is : time to get down to business .
I too must say that I will be voting for this joint text for a Council and European Parliament decision with a very heavy heart .
It is shameful !
That figure of EUR 167 million for so many years is a disgrace for the European Union !
We hope that this , at the least , will come about during the evaluation process .
We sincerely believe in the validity of cultural action , among other things in terms of making a contribution to the social , as well as economic , development of a people .
Both of them have done a first-class job .
Why do I say that culture is important ?
Well in simple economic terms , Europe ' s culture adds to genuine prosperity .
Where would Europe ' s tourism industry be without the richness of our culture ?
But , more importantly than that , cultural activities are what make mankind civilised .
Culture is at the root of our democratic beliefs ; and an uncultured society is not going to sustain tolerance and freedom and democracy .
Cultural diversity is important , and it is under threat .
However , it is not under threat from Europe .
Many people in my country say they see British culture being under threat , for example , from Portugal , from Germany , from Finland , for heaven ' s sake .
We do drink port wine , and we do like German beer , and we even use Finnish saunas , but it is not from Europe that culture is under threat .
What I do see right across Europe is people drinking Coca Cola , eating hamburgers , wearing baseball caps , watching Hollywood films and often doing all this at the same time .
Now I do not believe that protectionism and regulation is the way of defending Europe ' s culture , but I do believe in lending a helping hand when we can .
That is what Culture 2000 is about .
So , I say to the Council of Ministers : Keep this programme genuinely under review .
Are we doing enough ?
And , I say to Madame Reding , thank you for the support and the help you have given so far , keep up the good work , we are on your side .
Madam President , I too would like to warmly thank the rapporteur , Graa Moura , and Commissioner Reding , for their contribution to the creation of this programme .
The Culture 2000 programme was finalised at the end of last year as a result of conciliation between Parliament and the Council .
The outcome can be considered reasonable , when we take into account the fact that the adoption of the programme called for a unanimous decision to be made in the Council .
We have to hope that at the forthcoming IGC we will also end up with qualified majority decisions in the area of culture .
It is really strange that legislation that adheres to the codecision procedure when it is being debated requires unanimity for it to be passed in the Council .
The framework programme on culture is replacing the present Kaleidoscope , Ariane and Raphael programmes .
When implementation of the programme begins , I hope in particular that the scope it offers for literature and the translation of books can be utilised to the full .
I believe and hope that , despite the assault on us all of the new technology , literature will maintain its status .
We need the depth of spirit that literature provides in the midst of a culture that has a short attention span and is inclined towards the superficial .
Literature likewise plays an important part in the way it transmits our cultural heritage , increases mutual familiarity and preserves linguistic wealth and the diversity of tongues .
I hope that this conference will also encourage the Commission to take the issue of libraries into active consideration in the fifth framework programme in respect of the information society .
Madam President , Commissioner , rapporteur , ladies and gentlemen , somehow or other , today ' s agenda has come full circle .
Youth , education and cultural policies are important tools for creating these values , for giving the citizens confidence in the European Union and making it credible in their eyes .
The funding approved by the Council for the cultural programme does not do justice to the importance of cultural and educational policy and of this programme to the European Union ' s goals .
Cultural activity creates identity .
Cultural activity is an expression of individuality , of an individual ' s own personality ; it builds relationships and communicates .
We want a colourful Europe .
We want a Europe based on the principle of diversity within unity .
We want people to understand and learn to appreciate differences .
That is why we spoke in favour of breaking down the budget , the allocation of funds that is , into the different types of measure .
That is why we opposed concentrating heavily on large networks and network structures , because we want to promote the small and medium-sized entities and activities performed by individuals ; because we want to see thousands of flowers bloom .
I would like to second what the previous speaker had to say .
Madam President , as we have heard , all the groups have a common political enemy in the Council .
It is not by chance that the Committee on Culture ' s decisions are constantly ending up in the conciliation procedure , for one or other Member State in the Council always holds culture hostage to other interests .
In this way , the unanimity principle has shown itself to be a blockading instrument of the first order .
The battle for a workable compromise lasted almost two years , and now , at long last , the European Parliament can give the go-ahead .
The Council could not be moved , not even when the precursor programmes Kaleidoscope , Ariane and Raphael finished .
A pilot programme was called for to bridge the gap .
This showed up the weaknesses of the European Union ' s cultural policy activities once again .
The political fight over funding and programme structuring is out of all proportion to the volume of support .
Out of 410 applications in 1999 only 55 projects with a low overall volume of EUR 6.07 million could be considered .
The Council was not prepared in the case of this particular programme to accommodate Parliament to the tune of even a single euro !
And so the moderate sum of 167 million will stand until 2004 .
That is the same as a single , medium-sized , German opera house ' s expenditure over the same period , when here in Europe this sum has been earmarked for 29 countries over a period of five years !
There is a blatant discrepancy here !
And so we are going to have to be content , albeit very grudgingly , with the fact that we have at least managed to achieve something in terms of content .
Previous speakers have already kindly pointed this out .
We can only hope that it will , after all , be possible to persuade the Council to have a change of heart one day .
Perhaps the Council will come to understand that cultural activities do the European Union good , not harm !
Cultural cooperation - and this was also mentioned earlier - truly creates identity , far more so than any transport directive , however important it might be .
Providing support for culture meets with wide-spread acceptance , and this certainly cannot be said of all policy decisions .
What , may I ask , is the Council afraid of ?
I have noticed how the principle of a necessary culture at European organisational level has been firmly asserted , but there are few opportunities to address all the requests that the European States will make .
I shall simply stress my own personal complaint because , in the end , we did not manage to adopt a review clause .
However , Mrs Reding was certainly receptive and farsighted , and personally undertook to review the issue and carry out a comprehensive assessment within a few years , and therefore to change the situation .
This is not rhetoric , but the new embodiment of a modern liberalism which unites the European States and constitutes a turning point for the European Parliament and the Commission .
Man and culture are priorities , and culture can result in economic growth .
Let us contemplate this result , derive satisfaction from it and grant ourselves a licence to fully embrace this worthwhile strategy .
Madam President , may I first thank Mr Graa Moura for weaving his way through the rather tough textiles and fibres that have made up this conciliation tapestry .
It seems to me when entering the conciliation process for Culture 2000 , having a poet to lead us in our endeavours is entirely appropriate .
The fundamental question , it seems to me , that faces this Parliament , the Commission and the Council is : What is Europe ?
What does it mean and what does Europe give us over and above the parameters of our national boundaries ?
That is what Culture 2000 represents .
It represents the possibility of sustaining a European identity in the twenty-first century , an identity which eschews the echoes of division , of war , of poverty , of opportunity , of poverty dans la realit .
It promotes mobility , and it opens the doors of culture to the socially disadvantaged and excluded .
My only regret is that in promoting this programme we do not have sufficient money to match our aspirations and ensure our ability to deliver .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , we have now come to the end of a long road .
Following the conciliation stage , our institutions can now formally adopt the new ' Culture 2000 ' framework programme .
We shall thus , in the course of the next five years , have a tool perfectly suited to developing clear , well-structured and , I am sure , successful measures in order to promote the cultural sector .
It is with great satisfaction that I today welcome this ' happy ending ' in this House , and I thank you for it .
I wish to thank everyone in this Parliament who worked to achieve this successful outcome to the conciliation process .
They all made a vital constructive and balanced contribution .
Throughout the negotiations , they were of great help and it must be said that the difficult and occasionally tiresome negotiations were nonetheless completed in record time .
If need be , the report shall contain a proposal to amend the decision , and this should be achieved by 30 June 2002 .
Ladies and gentlemen , this is a formal commitment , not just words on paper .
It is thanks , too , to Parliament ' s action , preferring a number of small-scale measures to be carried out close to the citizens ' cultural roots rather than vast measures on a spectacular scale .
This is going to lead us to make ' Culture 2000 ' the programme of the citizen .
The increased participation of our citizens is something I hope and pray for .
I would like this participation to be as extensive and productive as possible and I undertake to work to ensure that in the course of the five years covered by the programme it becomes a tangible reality .
This is what our European ' Culture 2000 ' programme offers .
It does not compete with the cultural policies implemented in the various Member States . Such policies are necessary , and I would like to see them developed further .
It simply adds to them , complements them , building a bridge between the various cultures of our various countries .
A number of Members of Parliament have quite rightly raised this point . If the Union is purely an economic union , then it is a stillborn project .
However , if it is a union of culture , civilisation and participation , then it becomes a living thing .
Secondly , encouraging exchanges , mobility and training in the cultural sector .
Thirdly , promoting cooperation between cultural operators .
The new programme will , I am sure , in terms of its structure and organisation based on transparency , efficiency and balance , prove to be an instrument as successful as it is essential to our measures .
Madam President , I reiterate my thanks to Parliament for its support and for , once again , having shown the importance it attaches to culture in the context of the Union .
Thank you , Commissioner . I think we can also thank the rapporteur once again .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow .
( The sitting was closed at 9.55 p.m. )
End-of-life vehicles
Mr President , nine million cars are shredded and scrapped every year in Europe .
It is therefore only right that the European Union should draw up Community rules on how these nine million vehicles every year are to be recycled and processed .
We believe that the directive has a few weaknesses that we in the House should work on to produce a directive which is genuinely ground-breaking .
We therefore have a number of amendments .
I personally believe that the scope of the directive goes beyond its objective .
I do not think it is necessary for classic cars to be part of the directive .
Nor do I think that motorcycles should be included , as the distinctive culture of recycling within the motorcycle industry obviates the need for a European directive in this area .
I am not looking for such rigidly high recycling quotas when it comes to special-purpose vehicles either .
I want special-purpose vehicles such as ambulances to have high recovery quotas .
This is my main concern in this matter .
In my opinion , the directive solidly regulates the matter of accountability for how a car is disposed of in Europe .
This can be left as the Commission has proposed with the Member States ensuring the appropriate collection points for draining cars .
This will involve , for example , disposing of more than 32 million lots of used oil , removing break fluid , etc .
An important part of this directive is the issue of what to do with used parts .
What should we do with the shredded products ?
We should not overlook the fact that , although quotas are an important point in recycling and recovery , they are by no means the only point .
Do not forget that , in the case of cars , 80 % of environmental impact comes through driving , 1 % through recovery and 19 % through construction .
Quotas are not , therefore , the only parameter in the matter of environmental compatibility , just one of many .
Of course we need to aim high , but quotas must not become an end in themselves .
We must understand that the bigger picture is important when it comes to the environmental impact of cars .
This would at least mean 400 kg times 200,000 km less transportation .
This would represent real environmental progress because it would lead to a large reduction in CO2 which , if I have rightly understood the Kyoto Protocol , is the important factor .
We therefore consider that , in future , vehicles which clearly and effectively use lightweight construction methods will produce less CO2 and should receive preferential treatment in their combustion quotas .
It should not be for each Member State , but for you and your staff , Commissioner , to decide whether these lightweight construction vehicles ( and there is also talk of 3-litre vehicles ) should receive preferential treatment .
We think they should .
May I say something about costs .
Some say that all the costs should be borne by the manufacturers ; that this is only right and in the very best interests of the consumer .
However , this can be seriously questioned as the manufacturers will pass on all the costs to consumers and acquire for themselves a state-sanctioned monopoly on recycling .
I can only warn you against consenting to this .
There are amendments which propose splitting the costs fifty-fifty between the manufacturer and the buyer of a new car .
The money from this pool , system , or however you want to picture it , would mean that from 2006 all vehicles in circulation could be taken in without cost to the last holder .
This too is a particular desire of my group .
Our proposal to split the costs has a crucial advantage , namely that we won 't be an immediate candidate for the Court of Justice when the directive is adopted .
The car industry is concerned about and half expecting repercussions , which is a serious problem which we must address accordingly .
This is why I propose splitting the costs between the first holder and the manufacturer .
As for a ban on certain materials : of course we need one !
A car has dangerous components which we must ban long-term .
This means that we need a pressure instrument .
The Commission has put forward various proposals which are too stringent and we have come up with some alternatives .
There are a number of sound amendments .
This Parliament has been given more authority , so let us use it !
Let us have the courage to put together a ground-breaking directive .
A directive which we put together just for the sake of it would not be worthy of this House .
I ask for your support .
The principle of ' polluter pays ' is not being applied .
Vehicles already abandoned have also been abandoned by Community legislation , in that they are not taken into consideration either in the texts on emissions or in this text on end-of-life vehicles .
The only merit of this directive is that it looks to the future .
It has not , however , been possible to solve the problem of vehicles currently being used but which are already old and which cost far more to recycle .
This is a problem of compatibility between our directives on end-of-life vehicles and the former directives , including the one on auto-oil , which we voted on a few years ago .
Once again , the principle of ' polluter pays ' is not being applied . The taxpayer is still footing the bill .
Neither is correct .
We simply must realise that the directive on the table is a sound directive .
It means ecological progress for Europe , and we can be proud of ourselves if we succeed in enacting it and setting it in motion .
All the same , there is one point on which we are in conflict .
In the grand scheme of the directive , it is perhaps a minor point , but nevertheless a disputed one .
It concerns the issue of recycling costs .
Last February in this House we unambiguously decided ( and we Social Democrats are sticking to this ) that the matter of freedom from costs for the last owner is not open to question !
So who will pay for the vehicles which are to be disposed of ?
For us this is straightforward : in the case of new vehicles it should be the manufacturer since this will also compel manufacturers to design and build recyclable cars .
And what about vehicles which are already on the road ?
Such distortions in competition are not about environmental protection ; they simply affect investment potential and the jobs of those building cars in Europe .
Consequently , for end-of-life vehicles we propose setting up a fund to cover the costs of recycling end-of-life vehicles in order to safeguard the principle of freedom from costs .
However , I would ask these colleagues to show solidarity with the more than 2 million people who make a living from building cars in Europe , so that these jobs can be secured in the future .
I am in favour of stringent environmental requirements , as you know from the auto-oil programme and the debate on exhaust emissions , but I believe that they should be the same for everyone !
Mr President , Commissioner , I think we need this directive .
Firstly , because it clearly stipulates the environmental objectives .
Secondly , because it can promote recycling , which is important .
Thirdly , because it sets out a clear procedure to combat pollution caused by heavy metals .
This is also an important point .
The directive affords a European framework , also to Member States who already have systems in place and who wish to continue to use these .
Secondly , we need to retain the details as they are included in the common position .
As from 2006 , therefore , all vehicles should be handed in at no cost to their last owners .
Needless to say , this is most definitely an essential point which should not be changed in any way .
Is this too much of a burden ? There is , however , one thing we should not overlook .
The directive applies to complete cars , that is to say cars with none of the essential components missing . According to the experts , few of these complete cars are of no value .
After all , recycling and the re-use of components form part of a sector which is not necessarily loss-making .
Quite the reverse , in fact . At present , there is a whole raft of companies which make a living out of them , and a decent one at that .
This directive encourages the whole of this sector . It is a sector which comprises small and medium-sized businesses .
I think it is a good thing that this directive does not need to apply to historic vehicles , and I think we ought to add this provision to it .
I think , therefore , that vintage cars ought to be exempt .
Also , it is a good thing that we should clearly lay the burden of responsibility with the manufacturer . That is a basic principle which we must uphold .
As manufacturers are responsible for the design , they can give a great deal of consideration to the environment at the conception phase .
We must also insist that the cost is borne wholly or largely by the manufacturer , as stipulated in the common position .
I find this a well-balanced formula which does not preclude a number of other things .
I think we need to retain it .
This is why our group will remain as close to the common position as possible and will not alter its essence .
After all , we are all aware how difficult it was within the Council to bring this common position about , and that it was a very difficult balancing act to reach this common position .
In my opinion , we should not jeopardise that common position , because it is a directive which we desperately need for environmental reasons .
I would ask you to support this common position .
Mr President , we need to take an important decision today .
Does this European Parliament support the ecological principle of manufacturer ' s liability , that is to say that cars , once they have reached the end of their lives , are the responsibility of the car manufacturer ?
No , according to the Christian Democrats in Amendment No. 38 : car manufacturers and car drivers should split the cost 50 / 50 .
It is evident from the packaging directive in which this 50 / 50 compromise is included that this does not work .
Packaging still accounts for a mountain of rubbish in Europe and is a burden upon the environment .
Some of the socialists under the direction of Mr Bernd Lange say : yes , we approve of this principle but we need not implement it until 2010 or 2012 according to Amendment No 45 .
The common position stipulates 2006 . According to the group of the Greens , this gives the car industry ample time to make the necessary preparations .
I would therefore urge my colleagues not to support Amendment No 38 of the Christian Democrats and Amendment No 45 of some of the socialists .
If car manufacturers need to bear the cost of recycling their cars , they will design these cars in such a way that they can be re-used more easily and more cheaply .
The problem of plastic and PVC will then no longer exist in cars and these products will be replaced by plant-based bioplastic . This is ultimately cheaper , also for the consumer .
For twenty years , the majority within Parliament has attempted to make European environmental policy greener .
Today , this green position is being threatened under pressure from , in particular , the German and French car industries .
That is why I urge you to vote against Amendments Nos 38 and 45 .
We , the Green Group , by and large support the common position .
Mr President , the waste from end-of-life vehicles is one of our really major environmental problems in terms both of the quantity of waste and of emissions of environmentally hazardous substances .
We in the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left therefore want as comprehensive and consistent a set of regulations as is humanly possible in this area .
With this directive , we have the chance to take a big step forward , but this presupposes that the Council ' s position is not torn to shreds and weakened in Parliament ' s reading of it .
If they were adopted , many of the amendments which have been tabled would considerably weaken the directive .
This applies , above all , to amendments from the Group of the European People ' s Party but also , unfortunately , to some of the amendments from Mr Lange , as I see it .
It is easy to see that the car industry in certain countries , for example in Germany , went in for some pretty tough lobbying before the present directive was adopted .
For ourselves , it is crucial that the following principles should apply .
The polluter should pay .
This means that it is the manufacturer which should take full responsibility , financial as well as otherwise , for recycling vehicles .
There must be rules governing existing vehicles too .
Where this aspect is concerned , we cannot accept any weakening of the Council ' s position regarding the date from which the regulations are to come into force .
There should be no falling-off in the percentages concerned or in the requirements for recycling vehicles from particular years , and it is important to limit the use of dangerous substances such as lead .
We shall vote against any amendments which run counter to these considerations .
If those amendments were adopted which would considerably weaken the directive , this would be very detrimental , not only from an environmental point of view but also for the European Parliament ' s credibility on environmental issues .
I was myself a car worker before I was elected . I believe I am one of the few members of this Parliament to have stood beside a production line and assembled cars .
I think that very tough demands should be made of the car industry . These would , of course , be to the advantage of modern , progressive car manufacturers who think in environmentally friendly terms .
It is precisely this type of car industry which we should be encouraging in the European Union .
Mr President , I am very pleased that environmental protection is now a priority for this Parliament , as indeed it is for the citizens of Europe .
There is no doubt that abandoned cars represent a serious threat to the visual and physical environment .
Our citizens expect us in this regard to protect their interests .
Each year , there are between 8 and 9 million vehicles scrapped within the European Union .
This in itself generates a large amount of waste .
We know that in the Netherlands there are authorised treatment centres in place to collect end-of-life vehicles and this process should be extended across the length and breadth of the European Union .
Car manufacturers will have to provide information on the rate of re-use , recycling and recovery of used cars which will be achieved in the coming years .
In accordance with new provisions included in the Amsterdam Treaty all the 370 million consumers within the European Union have a right to consumer-related information .
I believe EU consumers will support those car manufacturers that incorporate the most environmentally-friendly practices in the coming year .
Mr President , the directive on end-of-life vehicles is certainly a milestone in the improvement of the environment in Europe .
I also think that a great effort has been made to arrive at intelligent recycling of materials , a reduction of polluting waste and the promotion of technological innovation .
In this regard , we are certainly on the right track , but as some Members have already stressed , the real issue here is the possibility that manufacturers ' responsibility will become a shared responsibility .
We need to conduct a serious analysis of the matter .
Mr President , this directive deals with the comparatively small but growing problem of abandoned cars and the question of a more structured disposal of all cars at the end of their life .
To that extent , it might be thought desirable , even if it is not a matter of urgent necessity .
The key questions now are who pays the EUR 262 per car for the 9 million cars that are disposed of each year ?
Who pays for the collection , the dismantling , the disposal and so on ?
And should the directive be retrospective to cover every car that has ever been made ?
The proposal from the Council , the common position , is that manufacturers should pay the lot .
That would mean billions of pounds or euros for each of the major companies in each of the countries of the European Union .
That cost would inevitably be passed on to the price and hence to the buyers of new cars .
I commend Mr Florenz , Mr Lange and others who have sought from both sides of the party divide a compromise based on shared costs .
I also commend to you the amendment standing in my name and colleagues from Germany , Italy , Ireland , Spain , Sweden and Britain , to remove the retrospective nature of this measure .
Retrospective law is bad law , it is unfair law and often it is unworkable law .
Most democratic parliaments in the free world reject it on principle unless there is overwhelming public interest , which clearly there is not in this case .
That is why I have called for a roll-call vote on this .
We can see who is prepared to vote for a retrospection which is of doubtful legality , which would be a costly burden to every future car buyer and a devastating blow for the European car industry .
The Council ' s common position was to say that car manufacturers should bear all , or a significant part , of the costs of recovery and recycling .
But , as Mr Lange so rightly said , this solution is totally unfair to European car manufacturers .
This solution is unacceptable because these car manufacturers have not had the opportunity to build the environmental demands we are making of them today into their manufacturing procedures and their manufacturing costs .
The common position puts European car manufacturers in a disadvantageous position in relation to manufacturers which have just come to the European market .
I think we would all agree on that . Having said that , one of the stumbling blocks concerns Article 12 , i.e. the date on which the directive will come into force .
Parliament ' s proposed solution of 18 months following the directive ' s entry into force , for new vehicles , is not terribly realistic .
The European car population amounts to several tens of millions of cars which will have to be recovered even though they were not designed for recycling .
The common position was more feasible since it envisaged 2006 for vehicles already on the road .
This would , furthermore , make it possible to allow firms time to make funds available to meet these additional expenses .
Like my group , I shall therefore support this aspect the common position which , I feel , offers a balanced compromise between constraints upon firms and essential advances in environmental protection .
Mr President , the European Parliament is today facing an important decision .
The credibility of Parliament as a champion of environmental protection is at stake .
It would be shameful to say the least if the European Parliament were to draw back from the professions the governments of the 14 Member States and the European Commission have been making concerning manufacturer responsibility and environmental protection !
The intention of Florenz and Lange in their amendments is obvious : to sabotage the directive !
The proposed shared responsibility would undermine the polluter pays principle and detract from product innovation .
This is totally unacceptable .
I therefore appeal to the German delegates in particular to prevent major political damage occurring today !
The red-green federal government has not exactly covered itself with glory in the debate on the End-of-life Vehicles Directive .
Do not continue in this vein !
The whinging about competitive disadvantages is laughable if it only concerns competitive disadvantages sustained by the German car industry .
Start representing your people and not just your car manufacturers !
Vote in favour of environmental and consumer protection and for innovation in the car and recycling industry !
Mr President , this directive has been under discussion since 1997 .
It is high time that we reached an agreement .
Another point is that waste should not be incinerated or crushed , not only in the case of lead , cadmium and mercury , but also in the case of waste which contains PVC .
Parliament is currently discussing this issue in another context .
The other question is who should bear the cost .
I agree with previous speakers who have said that the polluter should pay , and this proposal expresses that idea very well .
Producers must pay - although we all know that the consumer will ultimately suffer the consequences of this - and they must take responsibility for the costs before 2006 , as some of the amendments propose .
We are more in agreement with the amendment proposed at first reading .
It is also important to set percentages and a date for vehicles to be composed of recyclable materials .
I believe that this proposal relies on very long deadlines .
Mr President , today the European Parliament must face up to real responsibilities . We have to work out what we are going to do with the millions of vehicles we abandon each year .
I come , of course , from a country that is proud of its car industry and of its commercial success both in Europe and in third countries .
I can gauge its importance for my country ' s international reputation .
I know of the proactive attitude of the European car manufacturing industry which has set up an extensive research programme to outline a national information system for dismantling end-of-life vehicles .
I am aware of the difficulties the Council experienced in finding a compromise .
That is why , today , we must be understanding alchemists , concerned for our environment . This will either be the century of waste management or it will not .
As far as I am concerned , at least , the principle of ' polluter pays ' must be applied .
The car industry , increasingly more respectful of the environment , has , I am sure , anticipated this kind of increasing awareness .
Indeed it is accepting its responsibilities .
I am opposed to making the car owners liable .
It would certainly be unwise for my fellow Members in the major groups of the federalist tendency to seek to make the European Parliament unpopular in this way by creating a liability shared between the owner and the manufacturer .
How , furthermore , can a fund be created which will pay for vehicle recycling and manage operations within Europe .
Who is to pay for recycling the car I bought in France if I register it in Belgium ?
Which national fund will pay for my end-of-life vehicle ?
Let us beware , too , of worrying the world of business with the legal uncertainty of an unacceptable retroactive application .
It is not our intention to start a punitive legislative campaign here today , but to continue on our present course , advocating sustainable development .
Now , a sound common position submitted by the Council is in danger of being changed for the worse from an environmental point of view here in Parliament .
Every year , we discard a huge amount of cars which contain many dangerous substances .
This is why it is important to prevent waste materials .
We should also aim for minimum quantities of heavy metals , as well as of other dangerous substances and materials .
In addition , car manufacturers need to produce and build these cars in such a way as to facilitate simple dismantling and re-use .
What is left of the stripped vehicle also requires to be processed adequately .
I therefore welcome with open arms the percentage levels for re-use and recycling which have been proposed by the Council .
These days , the complete dismantling of end-of-life vehicles is economically viable . This means that we move away from shredding .
The prescribed objectives are most certainly viable and , in the Netherlands , a value of 86 % recycling has now already been achieved .
The best way of achieving proper collection is to ensure that the last holder and / or owner can deliver the car to an authorised treatment facility without any cost .
The processing cost can then be incorporated in the price of new cars .
The proposals made by a few MEPs impact greatly on this system .
The so-called shared liability is very cumbersome and does not stimulate innovation .
If the system of delivering cars to treatment facilities without any cost is applied , it will also transpire that the cost of processing will come down considerably .
Finally , this directive should enter into force at the earliest opportunity .
A laborious conciliation procedure would entail an unnecessary delay , at the expense of the environment .
Why cannot we just be satisfied with the common position currently tabled ?
If we are , then all that remains for us to do is to congratulate the Council on the result achieved .
Mr President , I hold Mr Florenz in high esteem .
He has delivered excellent work under pressure both from his colleagues and from the car industry .
Add to this the fact that he had to do this from his green approach and , against that background , find a compromise . That was not easy .
Overall , I am not dissatisfied with the present common position and certainly not with the philosophy underlying that common position . I would like to comment on two things .
I do not wish to alter the text of the common position in any way .
The manufacturer is and should be liable and the last holder and / or owner must be able to hand back the car without any cost .
In my opinion , there is too much initial hesitation .
The car lobby has led too many people up the garden path .
I would also like to mention that experience has nonetheless taught us that the processing cost is in fact passed on .
These costs are not very high .
In the Member State where I come from , you are talking about 150 Guilders per car .
If you charge this from day one , you can process the old cars straight away .
A very large industry might then emerge which would ensure that scrapyards , which used to be a common feature in our Member States , would then disappear .
I do not wish to make any changes to this particular aspect of the compromise .
I think it would be a good thing if we were to approve the present legislation together as soon as possible .
This is positive because , in that way , the nine million cars which are introduced each year onto European roads will actually be processed appropriately , and this will benefit us all .
I therefore think it is crucial for the environment that the ban on using poisonous heavy metals should be fully implemented and that we should not reduce manufacturers ' liability .
If we do reduce it , we remove from manufacturers the incentive to design and produce cars which give rise to less waste .
If these amendments are adopted , I think that we shall cause Parliament seriously to lose credibility on environmental issues .
I would therefore recommend to Members of Parliament that we cut across party lines and vote against all the amendments to the common position which would weaken environmental standards and reduce manufacturers ' liability .
We shall then be able to achieve an environmentally respectable result .
Mr President , this excellent directive will end the dumping of old cars , encourage recycling , and above all encourage manufacturers to design cars which can easily be recycled .
Now who should pay the costs ?
Whatever system is adopted , ultimately the cost will be passed on to the consumer .
The best way of achieving our environmental objectives is to make the manufacturers our instrument both for collecting the money and for disposing and recycling of the cars .
The manufacturers have tricked Mr Florenz and Mr Lange into tabling amendments here which seriously weaken these proposals .
Do not be fooled by the car manufacturers !
If you want the full benefits of this directive use your vote to throw out these amendments .
Mr President , Commissioner , this debate is not a technical debate , contrary to what we may think .
It has become eminently political .
Yesterday we honoured our institution with a political debate .
Today , if 314 Members of Parliament yield to the strength of the lobbying of some car manufacturers , we should be doing ourselves dishonour .
We cannot accept this . It would be a precedent which would open the door to all sorts of pressure in many other areas .
It would also be the first time that the European Parliament would be weakening a Council position , whereas usually we are complaining that their position is not strong enough .
The free recovery system , for example , for old vehicles and raising the percentage to be recycled will increase recycling activities and the number of jobs this generates accordingly .
Mr President , like so many others here today , I believe this is a good measure .
This is a useful measure and it is one which we all need .
Most of the technical issues have been resolved .
There are some details to be finalised but most of the technical issues have been resolved .
We have arrived at the final question .
In the first reading debate it was only the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee which asked this question and it was only myself as the draftsman of the opinion of that committee who posed that question in Parliament .
That is quite simply : Who pays ?
The Council common position reached a reasonable compromise in that the manufacturers should pay a significant part of the cost , not all of it as Mr Bowis has mistakenly said .
In fact perhaps as little , the lawyers tell us , as 20 % or one-fifth of the cost .
That is not unreasonable .
They have paid already .
Why should the very same people as taxpayers or as future car buyers , pay again to dispose of the vehicle that the manufacturer has made the profit from ?
I cannot accept that .
There are amendments here today that are proposing that should be the case .
I cannot accept it and I will not vote for it .
The responsibility for these cars lies with the manufacturer .
It is the manufacturer who has to provide the infrastructure and provide a reasonable part of the cost of disposal .
The common position does not preclude the possibility of contributions being made by government .
The common position is a reasonable compromise .
Some of the amendments today are totally unreasonable in that they take away completely the responsibility from the car manufacturer of paying a little if any of the cost of disposal of cars on the road .
I cannot accept that and on behalf of the taxpayers and the consumers of Europe I am voting against those amendments .
It is disgraceful the way in which the German Presidency handled this matter .
Mind you , even the Resolution of the Finnish Council Presidency in June was not the best result that could have been done achieved .
It is in the area of supply that small business plays an important role and we must not fail to also take account of the interests of those employed in small and medium-sized enterprises .
For there are considerably more than two million people employed in this sector .
The plight of small businesses is also addressed by numerous amendments from the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy and also the amendments in question from our group to Article 5 concerning costs .
The common position is also no great shakes from an environmental viewpoint .
Consequently , we must support an amendment which at least permits exceptions in the case of particularly economical cars .
The objections of the industry in this matter are certainly not without foundation .
However , the arguments of the plastics and car industries would be more persuasive if a commitment were to be given to reducing CO2 levels in Europe in other sectors besides these .
Mr President , we are indeed now in a very rare situation : those who wish to uphold environmental values will take the side of the Council in their common position .
In contrast to what the previous speaker said , I can say I am really proud that a common position was achieved during the Finnish Presidency to uphold environmental values .
That is why , in my opinion , the manufacturer must take the greatest share of the responsibility .
Mr President , there are two issues of principle in the Council ' s draft directive .
The first concerns the manufacturer ' s unrestricted liability to take back end-of-life vehicles .
There is the risk of creating a monopoly within the car dismantling trade . This particularly applies in areas within the EU where distances are great and where a lot of small companies are involved in dismantling vehicles .
I believe that , quite apart from the nature of the issue concerned , the EU ' s directives should not treat small companies within the Union unfairly .
Unrestricted liability on the part of manufacturers would also be in danger of creating a situation in which the market for used car parts disappears , for manufacturers would have a greater responsibility to sell new parts .
Yet the trade in used car parts is important , especially for those who collect and renovate older vehicles .
The principle of unrestricted liability on the part of manufacturers is also dubious in terms of the principles governing the market economy .
It should be possible for changes to be made to companies and for the latter to be sold and wound up .
They should be able to establish themselves in new markets , but also to leave old markets .
To bind manufacturers by means of a liability which can extend very far back in time ill accords with a flexible market economy designed to promote development .
The second principle in the Council ' s common position is the retroactive element in the draft directive .
It conflicts with established economic and legal principles retroactively to impose upon a manufacturer financial liability for its product .
To do so also changes the owner ' s liability retroactively . Over the years , a consumer may have altered the product in a number of ways .
Every country within the EU now has rules governing the scrapping of cars .
Some may be better than others , and some worse .
In anticipation of this EU directive ' s being implemented , EU countries ought however to be individually liable for scrapping vehicles in the best way possible so that the retroactive element in the EU legislation is not applied .
This does not conflict with a financing model involving the building up of funds .
Mr President , everyone agrees with the obvious environmental and industrial importance of the instrument in question .
The common position offers an acceptable compromise but its rather delicate and precarious nature somewhat restricts the opportunities for improvement , and puts the whole directive at risk .
I therefore maintain that Parliament cannot force the issue and it would be paradoxical for it to do so in the context of redefining the environmental scope of the instrument .
I would remind you that car manufacturers have admitted that they can live with the directive ; the costs are not excessive : recycling a car costs less than 1 % of the price of a new car .
Mr President , this is an extremely bad directive .
First of all , as my colleague Mr Bowis has pointed out , it is retrospective and that is wrong in principle .
Secondly , it dumps huge costs on the European motor industry which would damage competitiveness and damage employment .
In this Parliament we constantly talk about the need to promote employment and jobs in Europe and yet we constantly pass measures which will have the effect of reducing employment .
I suggest to you that the directive is bad in another respect , which has not been examined well enough in this debate .
It is like so much European legislation .
It is far too prescriptive .
It sets in stone one particular model of recycling .
One thing we should stop and think about is the fact that there is a very uncertain market for recycled plastic bumpers of cars .
The plastics industry for the most part does not want to take these things back and cannot economically do so .
There is already a very successful industry out there which is shredding cars , recovering metals and recovering energy by the incineration of the non-metallic parts .
This is a very environmentally reasonable approach .
It is just as good environmentally to burn old plastic as to burn new oil for energy recovery .
Mr President , the common position is sound , but it is up to Parliament to improve the common position on end-of-life vehicles .
The Social-Democratic Group has submitted a few important proposals for improvement over the past couple of days .
For the cars currently on the road , it would be reasonable to share the cost , for example by setting up a fund such as that in the Netherlands .
The common position stipulates that manufacturers should not only bear the cost , they should also take back end-of-life vehicles .
This is a big problem in my opinion .
I urge that car manufacturers should most definitely not be given the task of organising the dismantling and recycling of vehicles , as they would gain an excessive hold over the second-hand components market .
They would then determine their own prices .
Anyone who has been in an old car knows that this is to the detriment of the consumer and the amateur mechanic .
The European consumer organisation , which has asked us to support the common position on this point , is to my mind letting the consumer down .
A second argument for keeping the dismantling of cars out of the manufacturers ' clutches is the cost of transport .
If car manufacturers all set up their own dismantling companies , this will necessitate transporting end-of-life vehicles over long distances .
This is environmentally unfriendly but also expensive and does not benefit the consumer either .
I would therefore appreciate your support for Amendment No 45 .
Mr President , Commissioner , I have asked to speak again so that I can say a few more words at the close of this debate .
If you travel to the Netherlands , you will find that every last owner can get rid of his car cost-free .
This is financed by a fund to which the buyer of a new car contributes .
Should this be condemned ecologically , Frau Breyer ?
I do not think so .
( Applause from the PSE Group )
I think we have tabled a sound proposal .
The main thread of the discussion is about whether or not the manufacturer , the vendor , or whoever , should take the end-of-life vehicle back without any cost .
I will only give the example of my own country to illustrate how this system functions there without any problems .
We have reached an agreement with all the parties involved . These include car manufacturers , second-hand car dealers , the federation of the car industry , the metal processing firms , shredding firms and the government .
An environmental policy agreement has been signed on a voluntary basis .
The car industry - and Belgium produces a great many cars- did not have any problem with that .
Belgians can deliver their cars back to the vendor without any cost .
Some businesses have become hi-tech businesses , because they managed to recycle certain materials , even materials which are not yet included in the directive .
So this means that we are developing a new sector and new employment and doing the environment a huge favour into the bargain .
I am in favour of collection free of charge .
It worked for us .
Why would it not work elsewhere ?
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , thank you for an interesting debate in which many important arguments have been presented .
Would you be so kind as to bear with me for a few minutes .
Allow me briefly to comment on some of the assumptions and principles behind the present directive .
Allow me also to begin by commenting on and responding to a couple of the most important arguments in this debate .
First of all , I think I should repeat some of the basic facts which Mr Florenz and others have already mentioned .
What we are discussing here is the fact that close on ten million cars are scrapped every year in the European Union , resulting in approximately as many millions of tons of waste .
This means that almost ten million tons of waste are created by these cars , and approximately seven per cent of the latter are abandoned out in the open .
Moreover , they constitute environmentally hazardous substances of the worst kind .
Approximately ten per cent of lead production is to be found in cars , but also cadmium , chromium , mercury and other very dangerous substances .
This is something you already know , but I would nonetheless also repeat it for the benefit of those who are listening .
Cars are one of the fastest growing sources of waste we have in Europe .
We know that waste from cars exists and we know how we ought to be dealing with it , and there is no excuse for not taking action .
The present directive has three aims .
First of all , we want to stop heavy metals from being used in the manufacture of new cars .
Secondly , we want to establish the fact that the manufacturer is liable .
We can no longer take care of these matters at the end of a product ' s life-cycle . Instead , we should avoid creating so much waste .
We should see to it that we recycle as much as possible of the various contents of a product .
Thirdly , we wish to achieve the recycling objectives specified in the present directive .
These are the three most important aims of the directive .
This is , of course , because it is a waste of resources for us not to ensure that materials in cars are recycled .
It is , above all , the manufacturer ' s resources we are wasting if we do not get to grips with a car ' s life-cycle .
Two important questions have arisen in this regard . Yes , there are in fact more than two questions , but I want to mention just two of the most important .
First of all : who should pay ?
And secondly : are we reducing the European car industry ' s competitiveness by means of the present proposal ?
The first question , then , is about who should pay .
It is nonetheless clear that the cost will be borne jointly by manufacturers and consumers .
We have calculated that the cost of recycling cars does not constitute more than one per cent of the price of a new car .
Do we imagine , then , that the cost would disappear if we were not to adopt this directive ? No .
Clearly , we shall all have to bear the cost of serious damage to the environment , but it will be very much greater .
Moreover , the cost will have to be borne in the future .
The cost will not therefore disappear , but now we are clarifying whose liability it is and how the cost is to be distributed .
Are we therefore talking about a car industry in crisis ?
Is it an unprofitable industry which we are discussing and which we really have to help by not imposing more taxes upon it ?
Is it the case that the car industry definitely cannot afford these ?
Is it the case that the motives behind the proposed measures are in actual fact concerned with reducing the competitiveness of the European car industry ?
No , of course not .
It is quite the opposite . Do you believe that consumer demand for environmentally friendly cars and more fuel-efficient cars is going to decline in the future ?
What kind of requirements do you think our children and grandchildren and future legislators are going to make of cars ?
Naturally , that they should be environmentally friendly , that they should be recyclable , that they should be fuel-efficient and that they should not pollute our environment .
It is , of course , only in this way that we can create a future for the car industry .
The cost is not insurmountable ; nor is the task an impossible one .
The industry itself will ensure that these systems are introduced in Europe .
They will not represent an insurmountable cost for the European car industry .
They will instead help industry to be in the vanguard of eventually producing environmentally friendly and more fuel-efficient cars .
We must do this for the sake of the environment .
The costs will not disappear . Nor will the waste disappear .
But , otherwise , we must all of us , as taxpayers or citizens , foot the bill . What is more , the costs will be higher the longer we wait before taking action .
That is what I should like to say by way of introduction .
I also want to comment on the question as to whether there is to be any retroactive legislation .
Clearly , we must consider the problem which exists here and now and the challenge presented by the existing range of cars . It is still not an insurmountable problem .
We can deal with it .
We already have an infrastructure . We have what we require in order to deal with end-of-life cars .
I naturally hope that the result of today ' s vote will be a good one .
I believe it will have very positive and noticeable effects on the environment .
We cannot continue to close our eyes to these matters . As I have said , we have both the knowledge and the resources to cope with these issues .
After the first reading in the European Parliament in 1999 , the Commission ' s proposal ended up in an awkward political situation in the Council .
However , we obtained a well-balanced common position in July during the Finnish Presidency .
Now , we must ensure that the present legislative process is concluded successfully .
A total of 48 amendments have been tabled .
The Commission can adopt 10 amendments in their entirety .
Amendments Nos 6 and 21 are new ; the Commission can approve these .
The Commission can also approve Amendment No 26 with certain editorial changes .
Parliament has traditionally made a major contribution to strengthening environmental legislation in Europe . It would amaze and depress me if it were not to do so today .
I am very concerned about certain amendments from Parliament which bring the absolutely basic pillars of the present proposal into question .
These concern , for example , the phasing-out of heavy metals , manufacturer ' s liability and the requirement for recycling .
I want to deal with these amendments on a group-by-group basis .
Amendments Nos 4 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 28 , 30 , 32 , 37 , 42 and 48 concern the phasing-out of heavy metals .
Amendment No 12 involves a delay of at least ten years in bringing the provision into force .
Amendments Nos 13 , 28 , 32 , 37 , 42 and 48 involve introducing unnecessary conditions and exceptions . This would mean that the process of replacing dangerous substances would be implemented more slowly .
Amendments Nos 4 , 11 and 30 mean that heavy metals have to be separated from the waste before recycling .
The Commission considers that the type of phasing-out proposed in the common position is easier to apply from a technical point of view .
Amendments Nos 17 , 18 , 27 , 34 , 36 , 38 , 44 and 45 relate to the manufacturer ' s liability .
The compromise reached by the Council is fair but fragile . The Commission does not consider that the amendments would improve the balance without , at the same time , creating tensions .
I regret the confusion which arose recently due to internal documents from the Commission being wrongly used , so creating uncertainty about the Commission ' s attitude to the issue .
I want to emphasise that , as early as 1997 , the Commission proposed a special clause concerning manufacturer ' s liability and that the Commission entirely supports the common position .
This does not impose disproportionate costs upon manufacturers . Far from it .
Amendments Nos 39 , 40 , 46 and 47 concern quantified objectives .
The high level of protection aimed at by the common position would be very much undermined if the recycling objective for the year 2006 were removed .
These amendments would also make the objectives awkward to deal with and difficult to supervise .
Such vehicles are not covered by the definition of waste and are not therefore included under the directive .
So , whatever has been stated in this regard , vintage cars and motorcycles are not included under the directive .
We do not consider that Amendments Nos 2 and 14 add anything to the directive .
Amendment No 23 involves the Commission ' s having to adopt quality standards for reusable components .
This is not covered by the directive .
An ad hoc directive should therefore be demanded from the European Parliament and the Council .
Amendments Nos 29 , 31 and 41 water down the requirements concerning the dismantling of vehicles .
There is a danger of Amendments Nos 31 and 41 reducing the chances of recycling plastic , tyres and glass .
Finally , the Commission cannot approve Amendments Nos 1 and 33 for reasons to do with legal clarity ; nor Amendment No 19 , which the Commission considers to be unnecessary at this stage .
Furthermore , Amendment No 43 does not fall within the directive ' s area of applicability .
Thank you very much , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
We shall now proceed to the vote .
Vote
Madam President , as you know , the reason we are voting this report today rather than last week is because of the numerous and serious translation errors , particularly in the French version .
You have received a letter of complaint from me about the number of mistakes in this report and in other reports with which I have had dealings recently .
There is an error which has still not been corrected and that is on Amendment No 4 .
In the English version we refer to pharmaceutical and scientific organisations . In the French version that becomes ' entreprises pharmaceutiques et organisations scientifiques ' .
Could you please make sure that French-speaking Members of this House know that the word entreprises is not correct .
It should not be in the amendment .
And , again , I urge you , Madam President , to look at the standard of translation that we are receiving currently .
Madam President , I would simply like to point out that during the procedure , we were not allowed either to table or , consequently , adopt amendments in the Committee .
I do not know whether this is in order , and I would therefore ask you to verify the accuracy of the procedure which was followed before this report reached the House .
I have taken note of your comment , Mr Speroni .
( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
Joint motion for a resolution on the negotiations to form a government in Austria
Madam President , we simply have a few translation problems in this area too .
We consider the English version to be the original text .
To give you an example , in both paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Dutch and German versions , the equivalents of the English words : " in so far as " have been omitted .
This is why I would ask you to consider the English version as the original version .
Thank you , Mr van Velzen .
In response I shall say the same thing I said to Mrs McNally just now .
I am very concerned about these translation problems which , unfortunately , we seem to be having increasingly , and I can assure you that we shall look into the matter very seriously indeed .
In any case , the authoritative version is always , of course , the original language version .
- ( FR ) I am pleased to see the excellent report on the communication from the Commission entitled ' Women and Science ' .
In this document , the Commission proposes to stimulate debate with a view to promoting the increased participation of women in research in Europe .
This objective deserves our total support .
Expenditure on research and technology actually forms a sizeable part of the budget of the European Union , after agriculture and the Structural Funds .
The various framework programmes have enabled not only high quality scientific work to take place but also innovative cooperation between researchers in various Member States .
Relatively few women , however , are active in scientific disciplines despite the excellent results they achieve in their studies .
It is unacceptable for women to continue to be underrepresented .
I am therefore delighted to see the proposals of the European Commission .
The Commission document sets out to focus on the initiatives to be taken at Community level , especially through the fifth framework programme for research and technical development , which is quite obviously something I approve of .
Improved analysis of the obstacles facing women will make it possible to develop a strategy to eliminate those obstacles .
We will have to enlist the support of the many existing networks of women scientists and to obtain their assistance in framing a joint research policy .
In its communication " Women and Science " , the European Commission informs us of its good intentions of enlisting the support of women to enrich research in Europe .
This is very good , and we are pleased to see it .
The fact is there are too few women involved in research work in the European Union .
This is patently not the case , since such a quota would not be realistic .
Indeed the report does not mention the time limit for this quota to be achieved .
It is not a quota ! It is a perfectly legitimate declaration of intent from the Commission , insofar as it concerns its own programmes and not those of Member States .
The latter would be well advised , however , to follow the good example of the Commission , for once , and make the same efforts in their own research programmes .
People must realise this !
Second reading of the Florenz report ( A5-0006 / 2000 )
Madam President , today in the second reading we have voted on the amendments to the Directive on end-of-life vehicles .
I have rejected the entire directive , not least because Amendment No 34 to Article 12 and the amendments to Article 5 / 4 have not received an adequate majority here in the House .
I come from a country which manufactures 50 % of the cars in the EU and it is precisely the free collection of end-of-life cars which is so financially onerous and unacceptable .
Here , in my opinion , the labour market is also considerably burdened by the costs arising to these companies .
This cannot be a good thing in a European Union where we are ever mindful of employment .
I consider that this is a serious defect and that , in principle , it does not befit our legal system .
In my opinion , this directive is unacceptable for this reason .
Madam President , I would like to comment on the Florenz report .
Unfortunately , there has been a toning down of the effective ecological material flow policy , i.e. through the obligatory risk assessment of materials whose harmful effect on health has been known for years .
We know that lead , mercury , cadmium and hexavalent chromium present high toxic and health risks and numerous Community directives have succeeded in restricting their usage without any risk assessment being made .
Here , unfortunately , the European Parliament has bowed to the interests of industry .
These splendid cars do not constitute waste .
That is why I voted in favour of the amendments .
Neither can we fix what the age for a vintage car should be as there are very great differences from one country ' s statutes to another ' s .
In this way vehicles of historic value can be preserved for future generations .
We cannot forget old car enthusiasts either , of whom there are more than 50 000 in Finland alone .
They are involved in low-profile work of valuable cultural importance .
- ( SV ) The parliamentary process concerning this question has been confusing , to say the least .
Before the vote at the plenary sitting , new amendments have been tabled such as have already been voted down by the Committee .
In the divided situation which has now arisen , we therefore consider that the Council ' s wordings are the best .
We need a directive in this area , and we also therefore want to avoid a complicated conciliation procedure .
The directive concerning end-of-life vehicles will stand as an example for future legislation .
It is therefore important that the manufacturer ' s liability should be clear . This should not in any way be jeopardised .
Today , Parliament is examining , for the last time , this text on ' end-of-life ' vehicles and what is to be done with them : their destruction , a commendable intention with regard to our environment .
There are , however , two considerations which must certainly be dealt with within this text .
First of all , who is to bear the financial costs of this destruction ?
We must all ensure that it is not always the same person , i.e. the vehicle owner , who pays .
He or she already pays enough in taxes for this vehicle , which is a bottomless pit in financial terms .
We have recently had cause to talk about the ' polluter pays ' principle .
We should apply this principle rationally and calmly , correctly targeted and without ideology .
Another essential point that must be included in this text is the express exclusion of vintage vehicles from its scope .
So let us vote for these amendments in order to preserve these gems of the automobile industry .
These old vehicles are testimony to a culture and a passion which should be recognised and respected by Europe , if we are not to water down each of our specific identities .
There is no lack of examples amongst European texts , and we all know how much debate and argument is caused by a lack of clarity and precision .
I only need to mention the case of Directives 79 / 409 and 92 / 43 .
The precise wording of texts provides a guarantee and legal certainty for those people who will have to apply or live by these texts on a daily basis .
It is not the job of the MEP to generate litigation or legal proceedings for judges in any arena .
That would not be fulfilling our mission .
On the contrary , we must adopt crystal-clear texts in order to limit legal disputes .
.
( NL ) That the Florenz report has caused such a stir has been proven by the powerful lobby machine which has been set in motion by both industry and the environmental movement .
I regret that the manufacturers have harangued the European Parliament and the Council with a whole ream of arguments which either cut no ice or were simply false .
I dare say this because I took the trouble to go into the field and collect information from , among others , scrapyards which already recycle car components successfully .
They made it clear to me that the arguments concerning lack of safety , for example , are nonsense .
The car lobby was unsuccessful today and I am pleased about that .
The directive remains in place .
I expect that we will achieve an excellent result in the reconciliation and that the efforts to achieve a better living environment will triumph over unreasonable industrial requirements .
- My party opposed this measure and the proposed amendments .
There are few things more certain in life than taxes , death and pollution .
However , there is also nothing more certain than EU environmental directives which have laudable intentions but which actually fail to achieve their stated objectives .
When it comes to pollution , like sin , we are all against it , but from there it is a far cry from believing that just because a measure is proposed against this evil it is necessarily good .
In fact , this directive , like so many others addressing environmental issues , is not good .
The one thing it will not do is solve the problem - it is a massive sledgehammer to miss a nut .
No one , not least my party , could begin to disagree that recycling should be encouraged , but the best way to achieve that is to work with the market , not to create another bureaucratic monstrosity .
Of course , these are areas where the EU does not have any jurisdiction and nor should it have such jurisdiction .
However , in the absence of these powers , it should not seek to substitute a less effective measure .
Instead , it should leave Member States to develop their own systems , and avoid the tendency to interfere where it is not wanted and can do no good .
Berger Report ( A5-0007 / 2000 )
Until now , the restrictions on the freedom of movement within the Union of non-Community workers have been very harsh .
It is therefore a positive step that the movement of workers within the European Union is being made easier , even when they are nationals of third countries .
This means that this proposal ' s fundamental aim is not to resolve the problem of the restricted movement of these workers , but merely to improve the position of the companies providing services .
Berger Report ( A5-0007 / 2000 ) and Berger Report ( A5-0012 / 2000 )
It is with the greatest satisfaction that I welcome the two proposals for directives intended to facilitate the freedom of movement of workers who are nationals of a third country while facilitating the freedom of movement of services .
The first proposal for a directive will authorise businesses established in a Member State which employ workers who are third country nationals to assign such employees to another Member State on a temporary basis to provide services there .
According to the terms of the directive , the employer would be simply required to request a service provision card for each employee concerned .
Logically , in order to be given such a card , the employee must be legally resident in a Member States and must be covered by a social security scheme .
The second proposal grants the same rights to self-employed workers who are third country nationals .
While , basically , I subscribe to the European Commission proposals , nonetheless there are some conditions which may lead to confusion .
That is why I am voting in favour of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur . This will make it possible to clarify the terms and thus prevent any misreading !
Other amendments are intended to simplify the administrative procedures , for example by authorising Member States to designate a single authority responsible for issuing cards .
I feel an amendment of this type is essential to prevent the sort of administrative unwieldiness which too often acts as a brake on the proper application of new conditions .
This goes against the fundamental principle of non-discrimination enshrined in the founding treaties of this Union .
Marinho Report ( A5-0003 / 2000 ) :
We have serious reservations about the Council ' s proposed amendments .
How can we talk of increasing the sphere of competence of the Court of First Instance when we know that we need to increase the number of judges in that Court because it is overstretched ?
The first measure would in fact cancel out the effects of the latter .
Some people will say that perfection is not a realistic aim , but a brief look at the background should make our reservations more understandable to them :
On 1 January 1995 , the Council went back on the decision to increase the number of judges laid down in Article 17 of the Accession Treaty of 24 June 1994 .
So what was done at Amsterdam ?
In that respect , nothing . On the contrary , extending the Community ' s legal competence within the framework of the third pillar has increased the burden .
You will agree , furthermore , that the texts adopted by this House always call for Community jurisdiction , and that includes for the Charter of Fundamental Rights which is currently being drawn up .
Consequently , these proposals do not live up to the issues at stake . They represent a downward spiral which in the long term would require the number of judges to be increased to several hundred .
We cannot agree to this , since such a sidelong shift towards a Europe of the Judges is detrimental to the proper exercise of democracy in our States .
The time has come , we feel , for in-depth consideration of how to put the Community system of jurisdiction in order and to guarantee a fitting quality of justice .
This question cannot be dealt with separately from the current thinking on the hierarchy of norms and the better application of the principle of subsidiarity .
Is the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference not the ideal opportunity for this ?
Dimitrakopoulos and Leinen Report ( A5-0018 / 2000 )
- ( SV ) The most important task of the approaching Intergovernmental Conference is to reform the EU before the accession of the new Member States .
We therefore , of course , support the European Parliament ' s now giving the formal go-ahead to the Intergovernmental Conference .
We nonetheless consider that the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference should be limited to questions which have to be resolved if it is to be possible for enlargement to take place .
We also argued this in November 1999 , and we would therefore refer to our explanation of vote of 18 November 1999 .
. ( FR ) In the opinion which it has just adopted on the convening of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference , the European Parliament calls for a " constitutional process to be launched " .
This determination to override nations with a legally supranational text is also expressed in the first meetings of the body responsible for drawing up the so-called Charter of Fundamental Rights , which is really a closet constitution .
It is expressed again in the unbelievable excess perpetrated by the European Parliament which today in its vote on a resolution wished to cancel out the result of the free elections in Austria .
The same determination to reduce nations to the level of mere administrative regions is also evident on every page of the opinion issued by the Commission for the Intergovernmental Conference .
Incidentally , the French will probably be interested to learn that the Commission is asking for Article 67 of the Amsterdam Treaty to be amended in order to establish majority voting and codecision with the European Parliament .
This is the type of mechanism we are continually subjected to when playing the game of European integration with the Brussels institutions .
If they yield , they are lost . For it is their very means of defence which are being eliminated one by one .
.
( DA ) The Danish Social Democrats have today voted against the report on the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference .
We were therefore also very satisfied with the decisions which were taken on this issue at the Helsinki Summit in December .
An unduly ambitious extension to the agenda at the present time would risk delaying the enlargement process .
That is something we do not want to see , and we have therefore voted against any such extension .
We nonetheless very much agree with our colleagues that there is a need for transparency in connection with the Intergovernmental Conference so that people are clear as to how the work is proceeding .
.
( SV ) We are pleased that a limited agenda has been established for the Intergovernmental Conference at the Helsinki Conference .
Possible future Member States ought to be involved in , and have an influence upon , the shaping of the EU of the future .
The elections to the European Parliament in 1999 showed perfectly clearly that the people of Europe do not fall in with the notion of an ever more federalist EU centred upon Brussels .
With the convening of the forthcoming IGC , the process of European Union is topical once again .
It is therefore easy to understand the public ' s lack of interest , given the construction of Europe which is going on behind their back and in areas which are not really of concern to them .
In fact , one only need look at the agenda of the IGC : the institutions , enlargement and European defence .
Social Europe , used as a foil by the EU , has simply been eliminated from the agenda .
All this does is to legitimise the development , on the European scale , of resistance movements anxious to bring in a social charter which would harmonise workers ' main claims towards the highest common denominator .
This is why I am voting against the report .
As the present crisis involving Austria has demonstrated , the Union has the right to protect itself .
I therefore think that this issue should be included as a matter of urgency in the IGC agenda , and in itself this justifies a thorough revision of the Treaties .
We feel that these issues result from the IGC ' s appropriateness and its objectives , as well as from the matters which will inevitably be discussed there .
We have doubts concerning the appropriateness of the IGC because we fear that the objectives actually being addressed may be far removed from the changes required to allow for the enlargement envisaged .
These are some of the basic reasons why we do not agree with the aims of the motion for a resolution now before us .
- The European Parliamentary Labour Party has abstained on the final vote on the Leinen Dimitrakopoulos Report .
There is currently a great deal of work under way in terms of reform and this must be the priority for the moment to allow consolidation and strengthening of the EU institutions .
Expansion of the agenda and drastic revision of the treaties would bring with it a risk of de-stabilisation .
The key factor in this text as it has been amended , is the call for a Charter of Fundamental Rights to be incorporated into the treaties .
In our view , this would bring with it a complex legislative burden , and it would be preferable to have a political and declaratory charter which explains to citizens what their existing rights are .
Our priorities ( i.e. the " left-overs " ) must be :
the number and responsibilities of Commissioners
weighting of votes in the Council
extension of QMV in areas where it will benefit the UK and Europe ( but not Treaty change , defence matters , border controls or taxation ) , and extension of codecision wherever QMV is extended
Beyond this , we have concerns that the " flexibility " or enhanced cooperation suggestion is not appropriate at present .
The most important task of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference is to reform the EU before the accession of the new Member States .
I therefore , of course , support the European Parliament ' s now giving the formal go-ahead to the Intergovernmental Conference .
I nonetheless consider that the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference should be limited to questions which have to be resolved if it is to be possible for the enlargement to take place .
I also refer to my explanation of vote of 18 November 1999 which clarifies my attitude towards supranationalism and common defence .
Joint resolution on Austria
This PPE / DE-PSE resolution commends the initiative taken by fourteen Member States to apply pressure to Austria by organising a sort of diplomatic boycott .
Whatever Jrg Haider ' s verbal excesses , which we of course deplore , the Austrians have made a democratic choice , and we must respect this .
Although comparing Haider to Hitler is a concept without any credibility whatsoever , it has nonetheless partly achieved its purpose in unsettling some PPE / DE Members of Parliament .
In order to prevent this threat to the system , it is ready to do anything , including overruling the outcome of free elections , including setting up a thought police , including establishing a new form of totalitarianism .
Is this hysteria spontaneous ?
Is it the product of mere foolishness or , more probably , of a deliberate strategy , which is the same throughout the world ?
Who is imposing their will on the nations of Europe , daring to stop them choosing their own fate ?
Underground networks ?
The government of the United States , or of Israel ?
Or their Socialist back-up troops who , in this House , have the cheek to thrust their values down our throats ?
What are the values of the Belgian Socialist Party , which only goes from paedophilia scandals to corruption scandals , via Vandam and Agusta ?
What are the values of the French Socialist Party , which extorted money from all the town councils under its thumb in the Urba , Sages and Graco scandals ?
I shall not even mention the instances of corruption in the Italian Socialist Party , because it does not do to kick a man when he is down , still less when he is dead and gone .
I shall , however , mention the Spanish Socialist Party which has just formed an alliance with the butchers of Albacete and which settled its accounts with Basque nationalists by hiring contract killers .
( The President cut the speaker off )
Madam President , I had a major problem with this resolution . Finally , I abstained on the vote for a number of reasons .
However , I do wonder about the wisdom of this .
Firstly , there is the question of trying to combat intolerance with intolerance and the long-term consequences of that .
I also wonder about the wisdom of the EU and its reaction to the formation of the government in Austria and how that is going to affect public opinion there .
At the moment it seems that the Haider Party is getting more support rather than less from the opposition by outside governments .
Even America has now said that it is considering breaking off diplomatic relations .
We wonder if this is actually feeding the flames of xenophobia and the parties and people that support it .
I really think that people should be extremely cautious .
If you want to combat xenophobia and racism , and I believe that we should , we need to look at the root causes .
We need to look at the people who vote for these parties , and understand why this situation arises .
Madam President , I strongly refute any statement , demonstration or feeling of xenophobia or racism .
I passionately defend Europe ' s heritage of human rights and the rule of law .
I disagree , however , for this very reason , with the senseless actions taken by the Presidency - the Portuguese Presidency unfortunately - which have resulted in a real institutional blunder on behalf of the other fourteen States .
This is not the way to fight extremism .
It may even be a way of doing extremism a great deal of good .
What are we actually seeking to achieve in embarking on an Intergovernmental Conference ?
A Europe of 27 States or a Europe of 14 , or even fewer ?
This needs to be said !
Madam President , I am delighted and proud that this Parliament has , by an enormous majority , condemned the formation of the coalition in Austria incorporating Mr Haider ' s Freedom Party .
Mr Haider has demonstrated , over the past years by both words and deeds , that he deserves to be excluded from normal democratic discourse .
Not only has he admired Adolf Hitler , praised the Waffen SS , and refused to condemn a terrorist bombing that killed four Roma , but also in Carinthia has been a member of the regional government .
He has led efforts to end provision for Austria ' s Slovene-speaking minority and assistance to immigrants .
Some have said it is not right for us to interfere in Austrian politics .
They are wrong .
European Union Treaties make it incumbent on us to protect fundamental rights .
Some have said we have to accept the results of democratic elections .
However , democratic elections do not make democrats of those who have threatened democracy .
There is the tragic monument of the Holocaust , the death of 6 million Jews , to those who argued the same case with respect to Germany in the 1930s .
However , we should not condemn Mr Haider for ambition .
Leopards do not change their spots .
The real culprits are Austria ' s Christian Democrat acting as Judas goats to resurrect a threat to Europe that we thought had died Berlin in 1945 .
These are the values which we ask of others who seek to join us .
This European Parliament requires the European Commission to be vigilant of any racist action in Austria , and threatens to suspend Austria from membership of the European Union if this happens .
I am proud to support such a resolution .
I shall take the floor very briefly , Madam President .
I respect Parliament ' s wish , as it has been expressed , but I must also say that the self-determination of peoples cannot be called into question , even by the European Parliament .
The document is unfair both to Austrian Members of the European Parliament , and to members of the Austrian national parliament , and it smacks slightly of jealousy and political interests , but also of business .
I do not believe that these signals will change the citizens ' indifference to Europe .
The Austrian extreme right has been gifted an unwarranted present .
I very much welcome the position taken by the Italian Radicals ; and I say this while making a clear historic and material distinction between Italian liberals and Austrian liberals .
I have for many years , in word and deed , been committed to the anti-fascist struggle and the struggles for equal rights and against xenophobia .
I have not been able to vote in favour of the present decision even though I agree with many of its premises .
What we have here , first and foremost , is an incredibly ominous mixture of power , arrogance and impotence on the part of the European Union .
Not only do these decisions conflict with the Treaty and apportion to the institutions of the Union more power than that to which they are entitled but , worst of all , their effect will be counter-productive .
They will not weaken Mr Haider and the FP . On the contrary , they will strengthen them .
We shall obtain the very opposite of what we want .
That is not how you combat racism and a swing to the right .
.
( DA ) The Left ' s Members of the European Parliament attach importance to the fact that , with today ' s decision , Parliament has NOT supported the fourteen prime ministers ' diplomatic sanctions against Austria .
The Left ' s Members of Parliament therefore supported the Liberal decision ' s powerful rejection of any form of xenophobia in Austria or elsewhere .
- ( EL ) The Freedom Party ' s participation in the Austrian Government is a dangerous development for the European Union ' s political future .
It is a ' Trojan horse ' which is unfortunately reappearing in Europe larger than ever since the Second World War .
The European Parliament and the Union ' s governments must politically isolate a government that includes admirers of Nazism and advocates of xenophobia .
We did so even though we did not agree with some of its recitals or terms , in order to show our solidarity with all those in Austria itself who are opposing the Austrian extreme right and its demagoguery .
Our vote in no way constitutes an endorsement of the signatories to this compromise resolution , their present policy or their future attitude should the threat of the extreme right become more serious .
This week we heard the first political cry of the new-born Europe .
It is a part of its future which is at stake right now , part of its very essence , its heart and soul .
The European Parliament was the first to speak up .
This courageous stance turns a new page in the construction of Europe .
Europe has managed to stand up to condemn unacceptable events .
The whole credibility of Europe is at stake today , before we invite the recent and still vulnerable democracies of the former eastern bloc to join us tomorrow .
From now on Europe must put its words into action if it wishes to show the world the scope of its rediscovered ambition .
I am voting in favour of it because it is inconceivable that the European Parliament , after its excellent political debate yesterday , should not adopt a stance on this matter .
Fascism and neo-Nazism are cancers !
The foul monster has been reawakened !
For me there is no question of allowing them to develop and to flourish without fighting with all our might .
Europe was born out of a desire for peace , freedom and tolerance .
There is no question of it allowing xenophobic , racist and anti-Semitic ministers to be tolerated at within it .
Do not count on me to keep quiet , without doing or saying anything .
In yesterday ' s debate in the European Parliament some Members of this Parliament expressed worry that we were interfering in the internal affairs of a Member State .
Such a concern is misplaced .
The European Parliament has never been slow to comment on developments in Member States with which they disagree .
We have condemned Basque and Irish terrorism .
We have opposed racism and the infringement of the rights of minorities .
It is our responsibility as a parliament , particularly as the democratically elected voice of the European Union , to comment on current political developments in Austria which are in conflict with the policies of this parliament .
By commenting and making our views known we are not preventing any party in Austria from forming a coalition government .
We are nonetheless , as is our right as well as our responsibility , telling them that if they go ahead then there are consequences arising from such a decision and in fact we are warning them beforehand .
Others would argue that we should suspend judgement until we see the detail of such an agreement .
Such a view is not only a political cop-out , it is positively dangerous .
That is why the European Union must make its position clear regarding the current situation in Austria .
We are nonetheless very critical of the methods which the 14 Member States have employed on this issue .
The resolution makes no clear reference to respect for the Member States ' national identities and constitutional traditions in accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty .
What is also missing is a paragraph concerning the EU ' s shared responsibility for the social and political developments in Europe and Austria which have been among the prior conditions for Mr Haider ' s electoral success .
Today , as previously in the history of Europe , right-wing extremism is the result of insecure social and economic conditions of life .
The policy of cut-backs which has followed in the wake of adjusting to EMU has promoted the successes of right-wing extremism .
A radical policy to promote security and justice in each country is the best guarantee of democratic development in Europe .
- ( DE ) I am making this statement on behalf of the CSU .
It is intolerable that the EU should involve itself in the formation of the government in a Member State .
It has no right to do so .
Instead of prematurely condemning the FP and the Austrian Government which is being formed , there should first be a critical examination and assessment of the governmental declaration and the party programme and policies of the coalition .
Only after such critical appraisal of the future policies of the parties involved in the coalition discussions can a decision be made as to whether this government is contrary to the democratic spirit of Europe .
This does not mean that we sympathise with Haider .
The CSU European delegates have no sympathy whatsoever with the leader of the FP .
However , as politicians we must ask the question why 27 % of the Austrian population voted for a party such as the FP at the elections in October 1999 .
We must concern ourselves with the reasons for this and try to deal with the reasons behind such results .
Only by tackling the arguments and policies of the FP can we prevent a radicalisation of Austrian politics .
However , the resolution of the European Parliament does not question the reasons for the outcome of the Austrian vote and offers no options for resolving the problem .
For these reasons the CSU European delegates are against this resolution .
In this light , the events we are seeing in Austria must be seen as tragic .
For the first time since the Second World War , a party which is openly pro-Nazi , racist and xenophobic has gained access to power in a European country .
This human diversity is our main sources of wealth , and this is the reason why it is my duty to track down and to condemn anything which may be harmful to it , wherever it may exist .
For all these reasons I voted most decidedly in favour of the resolution before this House on the formation of the government in Austria .
Jrg Haider ' s rise to power , with the inauguration of a conservative right-wing and FP coalition government , is a sign of the terrible revival in Europe of a monster to which liberalism has given birth .
In order to oppose the xenophobic statements of an apprentice dictator who is nostalgic for the Third Reich , we must take every opportunity we can to express our solidarity with the Austrians opposed to Fascism .
- ( DE ) I have just voted against the motion for a resolution on the situation in Austria in view of a possible government being formed between the VP and the FP .
I consider the casting of Jrg Haider as " Europe 's scapegoat " ( or even worse , neo-Nazi and Super Racist ) to be counterproductive .
Of course I , in no way , agree with the publicised statements of this right-wing populist and fully condemn xenophobia and any downplaying of the Hitler regime .
However , I fear that a purely emotional reaction by Europe to the events in Austria will only multiply Haider 's adherents .
The EU must not do him an invaluable PR service .
The strength of the FP can be traced back to the weakness of the previous government and in this the Austrian socialists must bear the main responsibility .
It was only after they unsuccessfully solicited the FP to tolerate a minority government and , obviously in vain , offered the Freedom Party ministerial posts , that the SP begin its massive campaign against Haider .
It turned its threatened loss of power into an " heroic battle for the preservation of values " and an imminent , pure-and-simple " decision between democracy and non-democracy " .
This is a smear on the voters in my neighbouring country which I cannot condone .
We German Christian Democrats used another strategy in the battle against extremists and clearly disassociated ourselves from them .
We revealed the hollowness of the republicans who were nationalistic , xenophobic and anti-minority .
Today the republicans are no longer represented in most local parliaments .
The German approach is no guarantee that this radical movement will not grow again .
It cannot be copied arbitrarily since each Member State has its own specific conditions .
The VP ( Austrian People 's Party ) , whose presence at European level we have also come to take for granted , is daring to attempt a coalition for the sake of governability in Austria .
It can only succeed if agreements are made which are solidly based on compliance with democratic principles .
The Council has become prematurely involved without waiting for the results of the coalition negotiations or a programme of government .
This condemnation is as unacceptable as the threatened breaking off of official contacts with the Austrian Republic .
Sound democracy means being alert and not blind in one eye .
We must take up a reasoned offensive against radicals on both the right and the left .
I would have liked to see the same outrage in Europe when the socialists were prepared to make common cause with the successors to the misanthropic and persecutory regime in the DDR .
In the meantime , they have been forming governments in German federal states .
I fully support the statements made by Commissioner Prodi in today 's session .
He spoke of the task of not isolating Member States but of doing everything to unite them in common European values .
- ( FR ) I voted against the joint resolution on the situation in Austria .
Austria is a free , independent and sovereign country .
Consequently , neither the Council , the Commission nor the European Parliament has the right to interfere in the internal administration of a Member State .
The Austrian elections were held in a free , proper and democratic manner .
Any interference by the European institutions in this country is therefore unacceptable ; it is in violation of the European Treaty ( Article 7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam ) .
Nevertheless , these same institutions showed no reluctance to accept Turkey as a candidate for membership of the European Union , despite its well-known human rights violations .
Nothing of this nature has yet occurred in Austria .
In such circumstances will it even be worth having elections ?
This is not the way to create the conditions for the nations of Europe to live together in harmony and to be able to cooperate to achieve a shared future .
I believe there are circumstances when the question of principles and institutional regulations is obliterated .
I urge the Council and the Council Presidency to continue to protect the fundamental values of the Union .
I urge the Commission to be less cautious .
In this resolution , Parliament is assuming its responsibilities .
Having said that , in my opinion , the resolution adopted today is the absolute minimum , the very least we could do .
Personally I argued in favour of a rather harder line , and I supported Amendments Nos 1 , 4 , 6 , 7 and 8 , as well as the oral amendment tabled by the Socialist Group .
In fact I consider it essential for the Council to accept only purely technical relations with the representatives of an Austrian Government which includes members of the Austrian Freedom Party .
The Austrian People ' s Party must accept some historical responsibility for this .
It is our fundamental values which are at stake here .
As the democratically elected representatives of the European people , we have no choice .
We must reject what is unacceptable , as our constituents demand .
Because , when the spectre of barbarism resurfaces , failure to oppose is tantamount to capitulation .
I abstained in the vote on adopting the resolution .
I condemn Jrg Haider ' s racist and xenophobic policy .
However , I cannot accept that an EU body should intervene politically in the internal policy of one Member State .
I cannot therefore accept paragraph 4 in the joint resolution , and I cannot vote in favour of the resolution , even though it would be a vote against the extreme right .
- ( SV ) Obviously , the political leaders of Europe have a right and a duty to react against Mr Haider and his party .
The political leaders of Europe are entitled to express their view of political developments in another Member State , just as a prime minister can express his opinion about racist politicians in a local authority .
Finland ' s experience , however , is that integration , rather than isolation , is the better way of combating antidemocratic forces .
I therefore voted against paragraph 2 of the resolution , which presupposes that all parties have respect for human rights .
The EU Presidency ' s " common reaction " against the formation of the government in Austria is legally unjustified . The treaties do not authorise this reaction by the 14 Member States .
Nor should we isolate the forces in Austria which wish to work for human rights .
That concludes the vote .
Adjournment of the session
I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned .
( The sitting was closed at 12.25 p.m. )
Resumption of the session
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 3 February 2000 .
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of the sitting on Thursday 3 February have been distributed .
Are there any comments ?
I can see from your reaction that many of the Members of Parliament have not received the Minutes and clearly you cannot approve Minutes which you have not seen .
I therefore propose to submit the Minutes for your approval tomorrow morning , since obviously you do not have them and I must apologise for this .
I shall therefore postpone the approval of the Minutes .
Madam President , on a point of order .
Thank you , Mr Davies .
I shall look into this matter with the College of Quaestors .
Madam President , on a point of order .
Happy Valentine ' s Day !
Madam President , I rise under Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure of this House and allude to the same point raised by Mr Davies about the very serious allegations made on BBC radio this morning .
Thank you , Mr Murphy .
As I informed Mr Davies , I promise to look into this matter this very evening with the quaestors .
Madam President , on a point of order .
I have already written to you on a number of occasions concerning how points of order are raised in the House .
I wonder on what point of order Mr Davies was speaking .
Why did he not mention the fact that one of his own Liberal colleagues also has a consultancy that is under investigation by the BBC ?
Gentlemen , obviously the quaestors who look into this matter are not going to be basing their assessment just on information from radio programmes .
They will look into the matter thoroughly .
Thank you , Mr Wurtz .
I would ask you , ladies and gentlemen , not to start a debate at this point . This was just a procedural motion .
Let me remind you , Mr Wurtz , that we shall be seeing Mr Prodi tomorrow . He is going to make a statement on the Commission ' s programme .
Naturally you will be perfectly free to ask him questions in the speeches you make following this statement , just as Mr Prodi will be perfectly free to answer you .
I suggest that you clarify this matter at that time , if you so wish and if Mr Prodi agrees .
Madam President , it is with great regret that I have to trouble you yet again with an issue that I have raised here twice before .
I have already told you on a number of occasions that we , on behalf of the Dutch contingency , would like a Dutch television channel .
I was promised back in September that there would be a Dutch channel by January .
It is now February and we are still waiting .
I would ask you once again to work on this .
I wonder what kind of mediaeval bureaucracy is at work here preventing a Dutch channel from being transmitted by satellite .
Mrs Plooij-Van Gorsel , let me say how disappointed I am , because I personally thought this problem had been resolved long ago .
I have clearly received your series of messages on this subject and I believe that Mrs Banotti has an answer for you .
I shall therefore , with your permission , give the floor to Mrs Banotti to reply to you under the procedural motion .
Madam President , as my dear friend Elly will know , I will do anything to make her and my Dutch colleagues happy .
I would like to assure you as quaestor in charge of this issue that we have had technical discussions about the various channels on television and radio , and I have already started mailing colleagues in this connection .
If it is of any comfort to her , the Irish have not got their channel yet either .
There seem to be intractable technical problems but we are definitely working on it .
Thank you for giving me the opportunity to clarify this .
I am not so sure that our Dutch Members will be reassured on the grounds that the Irish Members too are unable to receive a national channel .
I think we must do what we can to see that all Members can receive their own national channel .
Thank you , Mrs Banotti , and also the other quaestors for your effort to achieve this .
Austria , therefore , is perfectly entitled to form its government and the President of the Commission is perfectly entitled , and even duty bound , to offer Austria his best wishes .
Mr Wurtz should perhaps remember that not so long ago other members of his party , the French Communist mayors , were sending bulldozers against immigrant hostels in France .
Agenda
The next item is the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents , pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure .
a ) Sittings from 14 to 18 February 2000 in Strasbourg Relating to Wednesday :
President .
Is there anyone who wishes to speak on behalf of these groups in favour of this proposal ?
Since no one wishes to speak , I shall put this proposal to the vote .
( Parliament gave its assent ) Relating to Thursday :
President .
I have received several proposed amendments relating to the topical and urgent subjects of major importance .
As you know , we can only include five items in the ' Human Rights ' section .
According to the list given in the final version of the agenda , there are already four items .
We can therefore table only one additional item .
Who wishes to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party to propose the addition of an item on Cambodia ?
The international community has asked for justification for what is happening in Cambodia .
After all , we approved the elections in Cambodia , in what was one of the biggest fiascos on the electoral observation front .
Only this Parliament has emerged with some of its credit intact .
I think that we , as a Parliament , even now have to assume our responsibility and speak out on the situation in Cambodia .
( Parliament gave its assent ) President .
The item on Cambodia is therefore added to the ' Human Rights ' section . This renders the proposed item on Pinochet null and void .
In addition , I have received some proposals for subjects to be included in the topical and urgent debate .
Here we are not adding any more sub-items under the ' Human Rights ' heading , we are introducing new items .
I shall take the proposal from the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left first .
( Parliament rejected the proposal )
President .
We will now take the proposal from the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party .
Is there anyone to speak in favour of this proposal ?
Madam President , it is remarkable that the European Parliament has not yet adopted a position on the possible release of Mr Pinochet , despite the fact that international arrest warrants have already been issued .
It is inconceivable that the European Parliament , which quite rightly pays so much attention to respecting human rights , should fail to adopt a clear stance on this .
Madam President , this matter is far too serious to be dealt with by means of an urgent procedure at this time .
Firstly , the European Parliament has already expressed its opinion on the subject of General Pinochet , but , furthermore , there are certain questions to be borne in mind .
The first is that this matter is sub judice in several European countries , and I would like to remind Members that there is still no European judicial area nor a European legal system .
We are in favour of the International Criminal Court , but it does not yet exist .
I believe that this is a serious issue which we are obliged to follow up , but it should not be dealt with by means of urgent procedure .
We believe that justice should be done in this case , but this is not the most appropriate procedure .
( Parliament rejected the proposal ) President .
We now come to the third proposal which is for ' Environmental disasters in the waters of the Danube ' , a proposal tabled by the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance .
Is there a Member who wishes to speak in favour of this proposal ?
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , what has occurred in a tributary of the Danube is considered by many experts to be an accident on an environmental scale as serious as the scale of the Chernobyl disaster .
It affects not only Romania , but also Yugoslavia and , in fact , the entire Danube basin .
We consider the matter to be important enough for the Commission to react swiftly to this situation , and I think that Parliament must make its position clear and vote on a resolution on the subject .
( Parliament gave its assent ) President .
Is there a Member who wishes to speak on behalf of the PPE in favour of this proposal ?
Madam President , the agenda has been rearranged so many times that I would simply ask the Chamber to support the present proposal .
It is not a very time-consuming matter , but it is extremely important that it should get through Parliament now and that there should be no delays .
It is in fact about protecting the euro against counterfeiting , which is an extremely urgent matter .
We have tried to drive this proposal through . I should therefore be very grateful indeed if the Chamber could support it .
( Parliament gave its assent )
Relating to Friday : President .
Is there a Member who wishes to speak on behalf of the PSE Group in favour of this proposal ?
Madam President , with apologies to my friend , Enrique Barn Crespo , I should like to speak against this proposal .
I am surprised it has even been made , because we came to an agreement following an exchange in the Conference of Presidents .
We already have a directive . It is not an old one , it was issued in 1997 .
I propose , therefore , that we should keep the arrangements as per the agenda , with the debate on Friday and the vote at a later date .
Madam President , I clearly owe Mr Wurtz an explanation , and I am going give this explanation before the whole House .
We had reached this agreement on principle in the Conference of Presidents .
At the time , I did not know that Commissioner Bolkestein was going to appear next week before the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism to discuss this matter .
Madam President , I should simply like to ask Mr Wurtz to take a second look at what this is about .
Our sole intention in tabling the motion is to ensure that the deadlines which were promised are now finally adhered to , and it is therefore important that we act as quickly as possible .
That is why I should like to support the Social Democrats ' request to hold the vote on Friday .
( Parliament gave its assent )
Madam President , as you know the Cederschild report has been taken off Thursday ' s agenda .
That ought to mean that we have more time on Thursday .
In general the way in which sittings have been managed in recent weeks seems to me to have been very chaotic .
Last Thursday speaking times were extremely tight and then suddenly we had between one and one-and-a-half hours when there was nothing on the agenda and we had to wait for the vote .
On Friday of this week we have one single item on the agenda .
That is absolutely absurd .
I really should like to ask that a review be carried out of the way in which sittings are managed .
This sounds perfectly feasible .
We shall therefore see if we can extend the urgent debate by a half hour , considering the withdrawal of Mrs Cederschild ' s report .
This is all I am talking about here , just that .
Madam President , I would like to talk about an item on the agenda for Wednesday , which you have not yet announced .
I understand that there is agreement on this issue .
These are serious allegations .
They are completely untrue , malicious , politically biased and were broadcast in the full knowledge of their falsehood .
We are taking legal advice . My colleagues ' register of interests is complete .
If we find that any Member of this House or their employees collaborated with the BBC in this farrago we will expose them to the opprobrium of this House .
Quite , we agree absolutely .
b ) Sittings of 1 and 2 March 2000 in Brussels
Sustainable urban development - rural development - EQUAL initiative
The next item is the joint debate on the four following reports :
Since Mrs McCarthy ' s flight has been delayed slightly , I propose that we hear from Mr Decourrire first .
Upon referral to committee , we examined over a hundred amendments and , so far , 17 amendments , some of which have already been presented in committee , have once again been tabled .
First of all , I would like to remind you of the function of the INTERREG Community initiative , founded on the principle of transnationality and innovation .
This programme constitutes a driving force for development on the European scale .
INTERREG is one of the four Community initiatives scheduled for the period 2000-2006 , and is the one with the largest budget for implementation , i.e. EUR 4.875 billion as opposed to EUR 3.604 billion at the present time .
The INTERREG initiative , created in 1990 , is built upon the wish to make the regions of Europe ready for a ' Europe without frontiers ' in the context of establishing the great single market .
At the time of the reform of the Structural Funds in 1994 and 1996 , the INTERREG CIP has incorporated new strands contributing to the development of trans-European transport and energy distribution networks .
These programmes promoted cross-border , transnational and interregional cooperation within the European Union by encouraging balanced development of the Community area .
Member States , i.e. national authorities , are responsible for implementing this strand .
The new INTERREG programme , in the form in which we have received it , takes into consideration the needs engendered by enlargement to the countries of Eastern and Central Europe and to island regions and most remote regions .
The European Commission draws up the list of eligible regions for strand A and strand B. It bases its assessment principally on the map of regions eligible during the previous programming period .
The adoption procedure for the programmes is established by the general regulations on Structural Funds .
Proposals are drawn up by Member States and are submitted for approval to the European Commission , which checks their conformity with the general guidelines , adopted .
These proposals must include a number of elements , an overview of the cross-border or transnational priorities and strategies , a description of the measures necessary to their implementation and an indicative financial plan .
In promoting cross-border , transnational and interregional cooperation , this cross-disciplinary instrument is the very incarnation of a regional policy on the European scale intended to encourage harmonious and balanced development of the Community territory .
In this way rural development is becoming a pillar of the CAP .
The LEADER Community initiative was launched in 1991 to promote a new bottom-up approach to rural development and to diversify measures by adapting them to local needs .
The following objectives were set : improving the development potential of rural areas by calling upon local initiative ; promoting the acquisition of knowledge in the rural development sector ; disseminating this knowledge to other rural areas .
LEADER I applied to the rural areas covered by Structural Fund Objectives 1 and 5b , and 217 local action groups participated in it , with financing of EUR 1 155 million .
In October 1999 , following the success of LEADER I and LEADER II , the Commission decided to extend the initiative .
For the 2000-2006 period provision has been made , unfortunately , only for a total contribution of EUR 2 020 million , and an indicative allocation for each Member State has been set .
LEADER + differs from the previous stages in that all rural areas will be eligible . It is also more ambitious , and better geared to the challenges which rural areas will have to meet .
I share the Commission ' s preference for the use of global grants while urging , however , that the accounting requirements of national and regional authorities should be precisely and painstakingly defined .
I regret the delay with which LEADER , as was the case with the other three initiatives , was presented to Parliament and for the knock-on delay this entailed for the whole procedure .
I would like to thank the Commission services for their helpfulness and cooperation , and I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture for the contribution they have made through their amendments .
This Community initiative succeeds the two forerunner programmes ADAPT and EMPLOYMENT and has a much smaller budget of around EUR 2.8 billion .
The initiative adopts a completely new approach , which is to develop innovative employment models within transnational geographical or sectoral development partnerships .
The intention is clear : targeted projects are to be developed at transnational level , projects which are based on the employment policy guidelines of employability , entrepreneurship , adaptability and equal opportunities .
This objective is very much to be welcomed and also meets with a broad consensus in this House .
In addition , EQUAL should feed into the National Action Plans for employment and its implementation should be able to be monitored through these Action Plans .
It is an important Community initiative which , together with the three other initiatives , URBAN , LEADER and INTERREG , is financed out of the Structural Funds .
In my report I have tried to reduce excessive administrative expenditure and to build greater openness and flexibility into the system of development partnerships .
Nevertheless , technical assistance is necessary .
Particular attention is also paid to the dissemination of results and learning from each other by identifying best practice , with special emphasis on mainstreaming .
I have endeavoured to secure the widest possible support for the report .
This has meant a reduction in the number of amendments - from over 100 in committee to 22 for the plenary - which has also created numerous opportunities for compromises .
A compromise has now also been reached on the issue of asylum seekers .
However , in this context , Madam President , to allow us to work out the details , I should like to request that the vote on the EQUAL report be held not tomorrow but on Wednesday .
In this connection , the European Parliament is also justified in insisting that it should be possible to amend the thematic priorities only after a further hearing in Parliament .
EQUAL should live up to its name , and this is my firm intention .
It should provide equal opportunities for all those at a disadvantage in the European Union .
It should prevent society from splintering .
It should prevent exclusion from being part of everyday life .
Everyone should be given the opportunity to benefit here from a common initiative regardless of their age , gender or origin .
That is my intention and I would ask the House to give this report overwhelming support !
Just a year ago when the Commission produced its proposals around Agenda 2000 it axed the URBAN initiative .
Yet we as politicians knew that there was a groundswell of support for continuing this initiative into the year 2000 .
Parliament , therefore , can take credit for a successful lobbying campaign to put URBAN back on the agenda and get the Commission and Council to make a U-turn .
Urban policy has always been at the forefront of EU policy .
In my Member State , for example , we are developing a strategic approach in a White Paper and an urban government taskforce is looking at the problems of urban communities .
For example , in my own region , in Manchester , the URBAN Community initiative has been a tremendous success .
URBAN funds have been invested in one of the most deprived neighbourhoods in the UK , in Moss Side .
The work of this URBAN agenda was then taken out to the wider community with an active communication and publicity campaign in local supermarkets and famous British pubs .
This is the kind of good practice we would like to see extended across the EU in terms of communication and publicity .
As regards the specific guidelines governing the initiative , they are broadly defined to give scope for local and regional diversity .
We agree that they ought to be indicative in nature , allowing the maximum flexibility to ensure that we target specific programmes .
In committee we are not in favour of reducing the number to 50 .
We are in favour of reduction overall but we believe that the arbitrary number of 50 is not the key factor .
Instead , we should go for good-quality projects that can act as a catalyst to effect change and renewal , to attract inward investment in terms of loans and venture capital and to achieve a multiplier effect .
The Member States should therefore be able to propose a reasonable number of areas within the financial ceiling of their allocations .
In the designation of local URBAN programmes we need to make good use of local indicators and statistics on deprivation and health to enable us to more effectively target the most affected areas .
In the UK the local index of deprivation is a very good example of a widely used standard and statistic to help determine not only EU but national and regional assistance programmes .
This needs to be acknowledged as a tool and resource in addition to the EU criteria .
I would ask you to take on board local indicators to help us do that .
Our most deprived urban neighbourhoods face a plethora of problems : high unemployment and often very low-paid precarious employment , poverty and social exclusion .
Often these problems are compounded by poor health and housing stock and a culture of drug dependency .
We therefore have unstable communities which are infiltrated with crime , drug-dealing and gangs .
This is all too familiar in many of our urban areas .
All these complex problems undermine the quality of life for our urban residents , yet we have the potential in these areas to create growth and prosperity .
Instead , communities in urban areas should be encouraged to present integrated action plans to tackle their specific urban problems , using EU resources as a value added to local actions .
I would like to see those actions extended to cover health and anti-discrimination , as provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty .
The Community initiative means community involvement . Some of the most active and committed proponents and agents of change in our urban areas are local residents .
We need to encourage them to participate in designing and delivering projects for these programmes .
The time-scale therefore proposed by the Commission is very ambitious .
It is better to have quality projects with the active participation of community groups than to have projects delivered on time but without local participation .
The Commission must of course provide full disclosure and transparency concerning the selection criteria used for the new urban initiatives but it must also disclose the consultancy networks which are being used to deliver the exchange of good practice .
This is important in the interests of transparency and the overall effectiveness of networks .
Finally , I should like to emphasise that in order to address the problems facing the post-industrial city we require local participation .
We need to deploy the energies of the unemployed , the underused skills of youth and the experience of age to tackle these problems .
We shall thereby be able to replace poverty , dependency and alienation with equity , initiative and participation .
This will help us to restore the credibility of the EU and the confidence of citizens that Europe can deliver local action to solve local problems .
As we have heard , the objective of URBAN is the promotion of innovative strategies to promote economic and social regeneration in urban areas , bearing in mind that 80 % of the population of Europe lives in cities .
The Communication from the Commission takes account of the need to adopt approaches combining a range of economic , social , and infrastructural measures .
As the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs stressed in its opinion , the Commission must therefore recognise the need to exploit synergies in this context while avoiding duplication of multiple funding .
Not only is this coordination essential but , as we stated in our opinion , exchanges and the dissemination of expertise and good practice must also be essential .
That situation will be compounded by social reclassifications resulting from European Union enlargement , and we must therefore make provision for the economic regeneration and social cohesion of our cities .
Addressing those problems is all the more urgent in view of the marked spread of cities into the surrounding areas and in view of the cities ' historical and cultural role .
Here , we wish to stress the need for the balanced involvement of women , and the agencies that represent them , in planning and implementing the URBAN initiative programmes .
Mr President , our committee welcomed the priorities proposed by the Commission for the URBAN programme of better integration of local communities and ethnic minorities and improved security and crime prevention .
We considered that increasing public confidence by combating everyday urban crime was one of the central tasks of urban regeneration .
For this reason we very much welcome programmes of this kind .
I should like to comment on the concerns which the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has with regard to the largest of the four Community initiatives , INTERREG III .
It must also be possible to a considerable extent for social measures to receive support under INTERREG III .
The measures eligible for funding listed in Annex II of strand A do also seem encouraging in this respect .
In reality , however , the Commission communication does not contain a single provision for the Member States with these integrated approaches for social and employment policy aspects .
I should therefore like to draw your attention in particular to the inclusion of increased numbers of vocational training measures , especially in areas with high levels of long-term and youth unemployment .
Employment policy measures should also be eligible for funding under strand B , especially for the applicant countries as part of the pre-accession strategy .
However , I should like to point out that it is precisely here that this is fatal .
It is precisely where employment policy is concerned that we should work towards measures which are as simplified as possible so that the social dimension of the EU is once again given the importance which it deserves .
The basic objectives of an EU-wide employment policy are laid down in the guidelines and include employability , entrepreneurship and adaptability .
These objectives are obviously intended to make employees as useful and usable as possible to the economy .
However , the aim of an approach which really sought to reduce discrimination effectively and in the long term would have to be people ' s self-determination .
Only then does it stop being a question of economic usability and start being about people having equal rights to shape their own lives .
Mrs Stenzel ' s report has , however , turned out very well , at least where the prescribed guidelines are concerned .
All asylum seekers and refugees are to be included explicitly in the programmes , although this should be self-evident .
Nevertheless the Conservatives voted against this in the committee .
I would ask them the following questions : does your policy seek to marginalise people ?
What is the idea behind preventing people from working when they wish to do so ?
Does this not stand in stark contradiction to the guideline on employability ?
It is also worth mentioning that this is a mainstreaming programme , because there remains a shortcoming in the report .
Particular emphasis is given to the point that women ' s opportunities on the labour market ought to be improved and that to achieve this more crches should be built .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism adopted this opinion on the EQUAL report at its concluding discussion with no votes against and one abstention .
I am deliberately stating this at the beginning of my intervention to make it clear that there is in fact an alternative view to that of the committee responsible , the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs .
That is why a ceiling needs to be set for administrative expenditure .
The committee based its conclusions on these critical comments .
Dovetailing the activities under the Community initiative with the European employment initiatives is an essential requirement and a crucial prerequisite for attaining the objectives of the EQUAL programme .
We fully support the innovative approach towards setting up development partnerships and organising the exchange of experience at European level as an integral part of the EQUAL programme .
The specific target of deriving European added value brings the regional cooperation up to European level while retaining the cooperation of the various regional operators .
This is a good approach and that is why we have also supported it .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , it has already been mentioned today that the first URBAN initiative was an unqualified success .
A new feature of the URBAN II initiative is that it has been tailored to small cities or parts of cities .
This is important because it is precisely small cities which often find it harder to access aid .
And yet the problems which give rise to the urgent need for regeneration can be particularly acute precisely in cities of this kind and thus have a proportionally adverse effect .
To increase the effectiveness of individual measures the number of projects for URBAN II has been limited to 50 .
In any case it is necessary to ensure that in small Member States in particular it is not only areas of large cities which are again in receipt of the support .
There URBAN II would only be a drop in the ocean ; its success would be doubtful and the whole thing would be a flop .
Just as important in my view is not to broaden the selection criteria for URBAN II too much and thus water them down .
It is precisely a strictly defined list of criteria which is essential if the programmes which are funded are to be models and be transferable to other problem cities in the future .
Firstly , environmental protection is essential for sustainable urban development and the inclusion of this aspect should therefore be a general requirement for a project to receive funding .
Secondly , preventing and combating routine urban crime and crime related to drug dealing must start at local level .
These are essential steps towards increasing the quality of urban life and must therefore also play a central role in the URBAN II initiative .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to thank the rapporteurs , who have managed to produce excellent reports in just a short time .
However , criticism has been voiced within my group over the timing of the preparatory work of the committee .
The reports are late , and , in addition , they were very hastily discussed by the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism .
A good opportunity to discuss the results , good practices and shortcomings of the earlier programmes was therefore lost .
Our group is keen to stress the importance of cross-border activity under the INTERREG programme and especially cooperation focusing on areas outside the European Union .
Such important areas include the Balkans and the Adriatic region , but , in my opinion , we should not ignore cooperation with Russia either .
Our group would once again like to raise the issue of the practical monitoring of funds and emphasise the importance of better coordination of the INTERREG , TACIS , ISPA and PHARE programmes .
This coordination is at present lacking , and the Commission has not as yet made any precise proposals to improve it .
We here in Parliament are waiting for the Commission to give the committee a more detailed explanation of the issue as soon as possible .
It is of decisive importance to get local business , organisations and other players involved in the practical implementation of programmes .
Experience shows that projects of cooperation need better planning and closer monitoring and need to be generally more successful .
Projects have often remained half-finished , and their efficiency has been drained by administration and bureaucracy .
We also have to demand that our partners in cooperation be committed to projects and fulfil their share of the agreement .
Our group is reviewing a few amendments that were rejected by the committee .
It will not work as an automatic target , but must be applied in the target area according to prevailing conditions .
This is such an important matter for consideration that firm conclusions have to drawn .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , INTERREG is one of the most European of all the Structural Funds .
Here , projects covering only one region or one country will not receive support ; they will have to cover neighbouring regions in two or more countries .
Unfortunately this is only true for part of the money , that is only for the borders within the EU .
But it is precisely the regions on borders with third countries which need an operational instrument to foster cross-border cooperation .
The regulation pretends that there is one , but there is not .
The fact is that the Commission has not amended the regulation for years , although Parliament has been calling for it to do so for some time .
The practical consequence for these regions in the immediate future is that support for border areas will again be downgraded .
Since 1996 , Parliament has been calling for a joint fund to be created for cooperation with third countries in order to resolve difficulties .
Nothing has happened !
The difficulties are once again being allowed to persist , to the detriment of the regions concerned .
Parliament is here renewing its call for an improvement and for cross-border cooperation , and we look forward to a joint fund being created and to the regulation being amended once more in cooperation with the other Commissioners .
We want a Europe for the people and not a Europe of paper-pushers !
Mr President , a third of EU money is invested in funds for all kinds of development causes .
According to my group , this is excellent if , as a result of this , deprivation within regions , towns and population groups is eliminated or if health and the environment improved .
That is a question of solidarity and progress .
But dishing out increasing amounts of money is no guarantee for improved spending .
The local councils and regions where the money ends up have since gained practical experience .
They find it is extremely difficult to spend the money on their most needy causes .
Anything related to economic growth and infrastructure usually scores quite highly , but social goals and environmental causes often cannot count on approval .
Since there is great uncertainty surrounding the way in which rules are interpreted , local councils and regions have now started to enlist the services of expensive bureaux .
The task of these experts is to gauge to what extent European Commission officials would be prepared to approve plans .
In some cases , I get the impression that it is not about solidarity or alleviating the most desperate problems , but about propaganda and upholding vested interests in exchange for the European Union ' s blessing .
It seems that the key goal there has become the construction and painting of propaganda panels advertising the fact that such and such a project has been co-financed by the European Union .
Too much money is wasted on propaganda and investigation bureaux , consultation and control , and a great deal of money ends up back in the country where it was collected in the first place .
If there is a choice between investing in innovation projects or injecting most of the funding into bringing on deprived areas , we would opt for the latter as this does the most to benefit equality .
After all , innovation in areas that have already grown prosperous is paying dividends even now and taking place without European funding .
A second point where we need to focus our attention is the possibility of nepotism and abuse of power within regional and local councils .
The emphasis is on local groups in which the authorities , non-profit-making organisations and profit-making companies join forces .
The discussion has centred on the allocation formula to be applied .
In this respect , one of the variants considered is reminiscent of the Dutch polder model , the structurally planned cooperation between government , trade unions and employers ' organisations .
Let us not forget that elections for local councils and regional parliaments are held so as to represent the entire population .
So , really , these bodies should already provide for a balance , and take into account the wishes of the union movement and environmental movement in the process .
My group welcomes the fact that the union movement and environmental movement are expressly given their own roles to play , as their input in society is important in our view .
This could prevent local governments that are functioning in a short-sighted or insufficiently democratic way from neglecting their duty of input from the very start .
But the fact that we now fear abuse of power and nepotism indicates that , unfortunately , democracy is not fully functioning yet .
One of the objections is that , due to the restricted role of the elected bodies , businesses gain more influence .
We believe in ' one man , one vote ' more than ' one share , one vote ' .
Mr President , there are economic frontiers within the European Union , and the internal market with the free movement of goods , persons , services and capital is fully operating at this time .
Some areas within the European Union are economically very strong and heavily exceed the average income per capita .
There are poor regions within the Union which need to be given European assistance to improve the fabric of their economies so that they can compete within the European Union structure .
The core aspects of this debate this evening relate to the operation of the EU initiative programmes , namely , the new INTERREG III initiative , EQUAL and the LEADER + scheme .
Between these three programmes there must be a clear demonstration of the commitment of the EU to promoting cross-border development , combating the problems of long-term unemployment and supporting rural development schemes .
Mr President , quite a few towns and cities within the European Union have to contend with deprivation .
The Member States do not always have sufficient means at their disposal to address this deprivation adequately .
This is why it is useful for the European Union to continue to support the Member States and , if necessary , give additional support under URBAN .
Over the next seven years , the Commission ' s proposals concerning URBAN will entail a reduction in both the Community budget and the number of areas standing to benefit .
In common with Mrs McCarthy , I have to note that the number of areas has been drastically reduced .
It is desirable for Member States to have a certain amount of freedom to determine the number of projects themselves within the confines of a certain budget .
As far as the budget is concerned , as already stated , URBAN is there to support and complement national policy .
In order to generate extra means if necessary , I think it is entirely logical to turn first to the Member States and private investors .
Consequently , we cannot support Amendment No 2 of the Greens , as borne out in the committee meeting .
In addition , I am of the opinion that funding for a town or neighbourhood , especially where Community contributions are concerned , should incentivise .
Structural support is said to cause subsidy-dependence .
We would then be overreaching ourselves .
I would like to finish off by making a general comment on INTERREG .
In my opinion , funding for cross-border initiatives should only be provided if it is actually required by the regions .
When projects are implemented , it is also important that they do not contravene general Community legislation .
According to the report issued by the Court of Auditors on the year 1998 , this is not an imagined risk .
Hence our amendment in order to prevent contradictions between general policy and actual projects .
Before I begin I will take the liberty of expressing my consternation at the way in which Austria has been prejudged by 14 Council representatives .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , as part of the reform of the Structural Funds the Community initiatives are being pruned to a total of four .
I welcome the continuation of INTERREG and the priority which it has been accorded .
However , the delayed presentation of the draft guidelines has caused a number of problems .
The regions have not been sufficiently involved in the preparation of the guidelines , although this demand was often made in the debate about the reform of the Structural Funds .
There is no direct transition between INTERREG II and III , the practical consequences of which are uncertainty in terms of planning and gaps in funding .
That is a shame because it threatens perfectly sensible projects .
When INTERREG is implemented , it will need to be coordinated and synchronised with the other financial instruments concerned .
This is particularly important in order to increase the efficiency of the funds deployed .
This will cause practical problems in the future , and I hope that despite this it will be possible to implement INTERREG effectively .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the Community initiative LEADER proved itself to be an effective instrument to initiate innovative developments and pilot projects both within and outside rural areas .
The preservation of this Community initiative in particular , in the form of a new version - LEADER + - is therefore greatly to be welcomed .
The new LEADER + programme now covers all rural areas in the European Union , which will open up greater possibilities for potential projects .
It is important for there to be coordination between LEADER + and the other support initiatives in the European Union , but coordination with other national support schemes is also just as important .
Overlap between support schemes must be avoided and at the same time it must also be possible to exploit any synergistic effects .
In this context the aim of stepping up networking between eligible zones under LEADER is very welcome .
Attention must be paid in the LEADER + programme to all the sectors of the economy in rural areas ; only a combined effort will reap an optimal result .
LEADER must now move into the implementation phase .
The operational programmes need to be approved as quickly as possible by the Commission , which implies practical and efficient administration of applications and completion of the application approval process as quickly as possible .
Five months are provided for this .
That seems to me to be rather too long .
Efforts should be made here to achieve shorter times .
Because anyone who develops a project and has it ready will also want to start implementing it as soon as possible .
For me this raises the following questions : who will work there ?
How will these people be selected ?
Where , above all , will the required money come from , and where should this observatory be located ?
In addition , experience from other fields where observatories have been set up shows that , apart from rather dubiously creating jobs , they are not of any great benefit .
I would therefore call on the Commission to fulfil its monitoring duties directly itself and to do all it can to ensure that LEADER + programmes run smoothly .
Assessment and publication are part of this , and it has of course assumed responsibility for these in the past .
Mr President , the majority of the borders , which have divided Europe for centuries , were artificially created , separating single geographic spaces and creating serious disparities in terms of balanced development and cohesion .
Our internal borders , or what remains of them , no longer cause wars , but they do continue to generate economic backwardness , social barriers and a lack of cultural communication between the peoples of Europe .
The Community ' s institutions are obliged to work towards overcoming these border scars , which contradict the spirit of European unity .
The economic and social cohesion which we propose is based , by means of the INTERREG initiative , on territorial cohesion and on the integration of border areas and the outermost regions of our continent .
INTERREG has always been at the heart of a genuine Community policy for regional planning and a truly polycentric notion of our European territory .
Although the European Parliament supports this initiative , our only regret is that we have to approve a resolution on it before we have seen any evaluation of INTERREG II .
The people who have participated in this initiative have learnt the importance of learning together , of innovation , of sharing projects and good practices and of understanding and tolerating each other .
There are many interesting questions relating to it , the monitoring centre , the principle of concentration etc . However , I would like to concentrate on the management bodies .
We must create joint , interregional and transnational management bodies , in which all local and regional authorities , as well as economic and social operators , play an active role .
There must not be any repetition of cases of parallel projects on both sides of a border .
A project must never fail to be implemented as a result of difficulties in communication .
During debates in committee , we have also pointed out the difficulties involved in coordinating INTERREG with other annual or biannual financial instruments , such as MEDA , TACIS or PHARE .
This Parliament ' s motion for a resolution has been very attentive to these difficulties , making proposals capable of solving them to the Commission and setting reasonable deadlines for making the necessary changes .
It is a sad fact that there are many hundreds , if not thousands , of communities in the European Union suffering very severe poverty and disadvantage .
The programme has been extremely successful in Ireland , as indeed I know it has been successful in other countries .
It was quite slow in getting off the ground there , but it was slow because it was necessary to have the local people themselves develop these programmes .
It is important that they use their initiative and their own local expertise in developing this initiative .
It would be very easy to have these programmes developed quickly and on time if you brought in outside professional experts but that would undermine the whole purpose of the URBAN programme .
This , unfortunately , is not the case in Ireland .
I applaud the innovative approach of the EQUAL programme and the aim of integrating discriminated groups into the labour market .
The development partnerships are a very clever idea , even though they are experimental .
I have two major concerns , however , about the development partnerships .
They should be accessible to smaller groups , accessible for them to be able to devise , implement and monitor the programmes .
We need to have a wide element of flexibility within the programme .
I have also expressed concern in the past about the use of simple language and not using jargon , so that it becomes accessible to everyone .
I am glad to see that this was accepted into the report , but I cannot agree with Amendment No 9 because that amendment really is not expressed in simple language at all .
My second concern was that some discriminated groups have specific problems , for example , disabled people ' s access to the workplace .
Projects should also specifically address this problem . These concerns must be looked at while setting up the programmes .
I certainly intend to do that with organisations and groups in my constituency in the West Midlands .
I now turn to the controversial issue of asylum-seekers and refugees .
It is only fair and right for them to be able to access EQUAL in the same way as everyone else .
Thank you , Mr President .
Ladies and gentlemen , with the LEADER report , rural development is very much to the fore .
This does not happen all that often and it is gratifying , especially as the LEADER programmes have been key elements in the Union ' s rural development policy .
It must be stressed that in order to become eligible under the LEADER programme , local operators have combined forces , debated and prepared projects .
These programmes have , therefore , been important channels for participative democracy , the rationale of the citizen for Europe .
So , the concept for LEADER + should retain all the positive aspects of previous programmes .
One urgent question is therefore raised : why , when this programme has been successfully run for ten years , is LEADER + still classed as experimental ?
Are there so many other European schemes which can boast 800 specific original experiments which were particularly successful ?
For how much longer is the Commission going to leave LEADER at the experimental stage instead of bringing it online as part of the general concept of mainstreaming of rural development ?
Moreover , I wonder at the reduced guidelines to which the Commission wishes to restrict LEADER + .
As an ecologist , let met tell you that the precautionary principle and sustainable development require much more diversified and many-sided approaches .
In this connection , the Commission is proposing to limit yet further the cooperation actions of local action groups to only candidate countries .
The fact is , showing solidarity with Eastern Europe , is all very well , but it is not enough .
The tradition which has already been established by the previous programmes with the countries of the south , particularly the countries around the Mediterranean , must not be abandoned .
Mr President , I have a few very brief comments .
We are debating the planning phase and guidelines for the four Community initiatives without access to any substantive and complete appraisal of the previous period .
This is not very good at all .
Programmes and objectives usually turn out to be far too ambitious and their results are not always satisfactory , while the lack of transparency and complexity of the plans often allow considerable scope for mismanagement and even fraud .
The Community initiatives we are debating could play a positive part subject to certain preconditions .
They must , however , not be subordinated to the objectives and aspirations of a more generally negative economic and social policy , but must develop their own self-sufficient role .
For example , adapting EQUAL to the objectives of employability and the flexibilisation of labour relations transforms this initiative into a new version of local employment contracts .
Extending the LEADER initiative to every area in the Union entails the risk of marginalising deprived areas even more , to the benefit of more developed areas .
Mr President , rural development has been identified by this Parliament and the Commission as a priority policy area , and I would like to welcome here today the Commissioner responsible , Commissioner Fischler .
Our response to rural decline has come late in the day , but I suppose better late than never .
Family farming is now recognised as central to the European agricultural model and is an objective to be addressed , certainly within the time-scale of Agenda 2000 .
In my view the next five years will decide the future of thousands of marginal family farms .
It behoves all of us to do everything possible to ensure their survival .
As the Commissioner knows , farming alone will not be sufficient to ensure the sustainability of rural communities .
For this reason we need the coordination of all policy areas capable of impacting positively on rural development .
In this regard LEADER has established itself as an effective development initiative .
It provides the opportunity for local communities to identify their development potential and become actively involved in addressing those problems .
The voluntary participation of people in development programmes is something that is not always fully appreciated .
Yet , through LEADER , there can be no doubting its effectiveness as an integral part of broader EU and national policy .
In conclusion , while welcoming Commission approval for LEADER + , I am concerned about the time delay between the ending of LEADER II and the commencement of the new programme .
I urge you to look seriously at this problem .
A break in continuity will have serious consequences for the programme and certainly a disruptive effect on voluntary and professional workers .
EQUAL is a very difficult programme because it attempts to combine so many old programmes and yet aims to view them in a different light , doing so with less money than was available in the previous funds .
This is an arduous task .
Only , the number of people affected by these programmes has not really dropped .
Comments are made here and there to the effect that one group should get more funding than another .
Although a few other groups have been mentioned , it is the Member States , in particular , which are on the lookout .
For example , I know of one Member State that would like to use a large proportion of the entire programme for one component , namely refugees .
I would , therefore , ask the Commissioner to ensure that a balance is struck between these different groups .
It should not be the case that one Member State , under the pretext of calling on the subsidiarity principle , can decide that all funding should go to one group .
This is not the case !
It has to be redistributed time and again . It should be used for innovative projects and it should not completely disappear into the Finance Minister ' s treasury funds .
That is not the intention and that is an important point that we need to bear in mind here .
I believe that the remaining problems that we have faced within this Parliament , and which in large part stem from the fact that it is so difficult to strike the right balance , can be solved .
As far as the Commission is concerned , I hope it will be able to join in the compromise that is being concluded here in this Parliament , mainly with a view to reaching a balance .
I believe that this is actually a good thing .
The position of Parliament in this whole procedure is somewhat unclear .
The Rules of Procedure do not shed any more light on the matter and that is exactly why this back burner is extremely useful .
Mr President , there is no doubt that the INTERREG initiative promotes efforts to achieve economic and social cohesion in the European Union .
For Greece , for the neighbouring countries Italy and Austria , but also for Europe as a whole , the social and economic restoration of the Balkans , bringing political stability , is a vitally important matter .
So far , some Balkan countries have received aid from the PHARE and Obnova programmes , while others have not .
Accordingly , we welcome the related references in Chapter 7 of the European Commission ' s proposed general guidelines for INTERREG .
We therefore ask the Commission to pay special attention to the issue of maritime and island cooperation when zone planning next comes up for review .
I end by stressing the need for the European Union to persist with such initiatives , which strive to eliminate inequalities between our regions , and to foster their harmonious development .
And since this is St. Valentine ' s day , as a former Mayor of a regional city , I propose that we should all declare our love for all the European regions which need that love .
Only if the population can stay in the countryside will the quality of life in the countryside also be permanently assured .
We can observe the consequences of migration from the countryside in several areas of the Alps and they are devastating .
But I warn against using these programmes to take urban culture to the countryside .
And neither should we create structures which are reliant on subsidies and which will be dependent on them forevermore .
The investment needs to be visionary .
Young , creative individuals must be made to feel an attachment to the countryside .
If they all leave then nothing much will go on there any more .
None of us think much of the principle of indiscriminate , all-round distribution , and the pilot projects need to act , as it were , like avalanches and trigger other similar projects .
I would be in favour of supporting self-contained cycles of projects and , even though LEADER I and LEADER II may have had shortcomings here and there , overall they were certainly positive .
Mr President , I want to talk about the EQUAL report , especially the issue of the policy on refugees .
Last week , we had a very impassioned discussion about the formation of the Austrian Government .
The most startling aspect of her original report was that she wanted to limit aid to the small group of refugees covered by the Geneva Convention , that is to say so-called quota refugees or UN refugees .
In actual fact , it is the other refugees , namely those outside the quota and those not covered by UN aid , who need aid the most .
The Committee rejected this discriminatory proposal and decided that all refugees should have a place on the EQUAL programme on identical conditions .
Some members of the Committee , however , supported Mrs Stenzel ' s proposal and wordings .
As I see it , this means that Mr Haider ' s politics are already casting their shadow over this Parliament .
It is therefore crucially important that the Chamber should be as emphatic as it possibly can be in establishing the fact that all refugees are to have a place on the EQUAL programme .
I hope that the Chamber will be just as committed this time .
Mr President , during the last EU Financial Perspective from 1994 to 1999 , when there were 13 different initiatives in operation , the INTERREG II cross-border programme was an important initiative .
The fact that the next round of Structural Funds 2000-2006 includes the INTERREG initiative is I believe , a very clear indication of the importance which is attached to it by national EU Member States .
The INTERREG I programme between 1989 and 1993 and the INTERREG II programme between 1994 and 1999 have proved an absolute success in terms of bridging closer social and economic development between bordering Member States .
The Commission is allocating 67 million pounds towards the INTERREG III programme , which will be spent on continuing the development of cross-border economic projects between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland .
The European Union has played a key role in developing the border county region in Ireland over the years .
The European Union is the single largest contributor , with 80 million pounds to the International Fund for Ireland . The European Union contributes 75 % of the Peace and Reconciliation programme .
All in all , INTERREG , the International Fund for Ireland and the Peace and Reconciliation programme have all played an important role in the developing peace process .
Mr President , I am taking the floor to speak about INTERREG , but I shall confine myself to a few criticisms , which will clearly also enable me to keep to my speaking time .
We have all spoken favourably of this programme ' s confirmation and of the extension of the sectors it covers to include the field of transnational and interregional cooperation , in addition to cross-border cooperation .
We hope that the Commission will want to look into this and acknowledge Parliament ' s position in practical terms , and not just with a formal tribute .
This discrimination is much more serious for islands that have a regional status that can only be linked to areas of an exclusively maritime nature .
This is in line with ongoing discrimination , which ignores Article 158 of the Treaty on island regions with regard to cohesion policies .
More serious still is the fact that this is occurring while ignoring the new situation associated with the approach that has been adopted towards the enlargement process for the inclusion of regions such as Malta .
For a long time , probably a survival of our colonial heritage , our regions have fixed their attention on the European mainland , ignoring and even scorning their closest neighbours .
That time is now past .
This increased awareness does not , however , affect identity alone .
It is fostered by a fair appraisal of our assets .
So , for example , the island of Runion is located on a trade axis between the countries of southern Africa and those of south-east Asia .
It cannot afford to remain outside the regional alliances being forged in this area , lest it miss out on a historic opportunity , and the same applies to our regions in the Caribbean .
INTERREG appropriations may be used to make our regions into veritable European Union bridgeheads into these geographical areas , giving it worldwide scope .
I am counting on the Commission , and specifically on you , Commissioner , to allocate adequate resources for effective action .
I understand the Commission ' s own concern that distance may prove detrimental to effective cooperation .
Nonetheless , there are many maritime areas between which links are already established .
Various local authorities around the North Sea provide a prime example of this .
INTERREG could well allow enhancement of such cooperation .
Such measures will put maritime and insular areas on an equal footing with other areas of the EU . I hope for their adoption .
There is a lot of expertise within the relevant organisations which deserves to be shared .
We also welcome the recognition of the need for evaluation and the dissemination of best practice for the tightening up of the transnational level .
My group will not be supporting those amendments .
We are also concerned at the number of amendments which , in seeking to introduce greater flexibility , run the risk perhaps of obscuring responsibility for the management of the EQUAL initiative .
Mr President , I am very pleased to see URBAN orientated towards a more integrated approach which attempts to solve interrelated problems .
Yet , there is some risk of dilution of effort . If we pursue too many objectives , our overall effectiveness suffers .
Of course , every instance of a deprived urban area is a separate case .
But there is a common factor , a hard core , comprising unemployment , the resignation or withdrawal of public services and the disappearance of small and medium-sized enterprises , both commercial and other kinds .
I would wish URBAN to be orientated mainly towards providing answers to those causes of urban deprivation .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I shall confine my observations to Mr Decourrire ' s report .
INTERREG must , therefore , be an instrument promoting territorial cohesion throughout the Union if we do not wish to see a two- or even three-speed European territory .
Indeed , I am forced to observe that this was not the case when the Commission drew up its communication , published on 13 October last year .
In this connection , I should like to thank the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism for adopting one of my amendments adding the EDF to the list of these funds .
Furthermore , I would ask the Commission to please reconsider the limited opportunities that have been offered to the most remote and island regions according to the guidelines put forward in the communication .
Finally , in conclusion , I would like to express my regret at the low level of funding allocated to strand C , for interregional cooperation , even though the added value this offers the Community is undeniable .
Unfortunately , it is necessary to point out again that we do not have equality .
A breakthrough in this regard may perhaps lead to changes in other areas , however .
If that is the case , we have not progressed one little bit since pagan times .
No , equality means that we all participate in both working life and family life .
Unfortunately , developments are not moving in that direction .
On the contrary .
I think , therefore , that paragraph 7 contains something very central , i.e. that EQUAL will be used as a testing ground for developing and promoting new ways of delivering employment policies .
One can only hope that it succeeds .
One of the reasons why it has been so successful is that the basic concept of the LEADER programmes aroused substantial interest in activities amongst the population concerned .
I am glad that LEADER + is to remain true to this underlying concept .
There is a problem , however , which we need to address together .
And because of the programme ' s success and its basic approach they will of course at some point then be dropped from LEADER .
Of course this is also the basic idea .
Here we must ensure that the good schemes , those which are really excellent , are then somehow transferred into rural development policy to safeguard the future of this laudable work .
My request to the Commission is that it should make sure that the organisations and sections of the population which get involved really are accepted .
Have faith in the successful results which LEADER has had so far .
At the beginning it is sometimes a little like chasing a rainbow if we say that a plan is too idealistic .
And then when the work and the action start something emerges which the official policy , including ourselves at this level , could never have imagined would suddenly have developed so well .
That was the charm of LEADER , and that should please not be lost !
Mr President , I welcome the EQUAL initiative and the report which highlights the need to distinguish between actions to combat discrimination against women and actions to combat discrimination against minority groups .
Women are not a minority and often suffer double discrimination as members of minority groups as well as because of their gender .
This is why specific action for women is needed , as well as mainstreaming .
The involvement of voluntary and community groups will also be an essential ingredient of the EQUAL initiative and the projects .
The development partnerships within the thematic fields , which are referred to in Amendment No. 22 , would enable even the smaller organisations to play a part in the EQUAL initiative .
My group will be supporting Amendment No. 22 .
Mr President , the report under discussion in the House today is doubtless of great importance .
In my opinion , it is precisely in anticipation of this deadline that the European Union should strive to reduce disparities between regions and put an end to the isolation of border areas .
Indeed , these areas - and it is right to stress this - have an important role to play as an interface with the applicant countries that are going to join the Union .
It is precisely with this in mind that I tabled some amendments which I consider to be of the utmost importance , and that the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism has subsequently taken up .
I am confident that Commissioner Barnier and the President of the European Commission will duly consider Parliament ' s position on the matter , in accordance with the Code of Conduct .
There are fundamental advantages for the whole of Europe for it to promote cooperation with the applicant countries and to support border regions .
Mr President , Commissioners , ladies and gentlemen , LEADER I was an outright success due , in particular , to the great flexibility of the administrative management between the Commission and the local operators .
I am pleased to see , however , that under LEADER + , new resources have been allocated to helping rural territories to develop their potential and to implement the objectives of local and sustainable development .
I feel it is important to put special emphasis on trying out new ways to raise the profile of the natural and cultural heritage and to strengthen the economic environment , in order to promote employment .
The time is now right , I think , to consider including the exchange of positive development experience in the scope of transnational cooperation .
It is interesting to note that all rural areas may be eligible for LEADER II .
There must , of course , be transparency regarding the selection criteria for projects and local action groups .
Like the rapporteur , we deplore the fact that it has been excluded from strand IIIA .
With regard to INTERREG , we are very happy that there is a reference to the creation of a European monitoring centre concerned with cooperation .
I would like to thank the rapporteurs , particularly Mr Decourrire , for his sensitivity towards the regions and for accepting our amendments .
I hope that the Commissioner will accept the proposal which we are making .
Mr President , with regard to the various initiatives which we are analysing this afternoon , I would like to concentrate strictly on one of them , that is , the URBAN programme .
It is a fact that we are debating this programme today because the European Parliament insisted that this initiative should be maintained .
The Commission proposed removing it and other initiatives , but Parliament ' s proposal and the sensitivity of the Commission itself at the time led to the URBAN initiative being retained .
I believe that we should be pleased about this .
But what were the Commission ' s arguments , from Commissioner Monika Wulf-Mathies and Director-General Eneko Landaburu in particular , for eliminating the URBAN programme ?
Its argument was one of priority .
The urban question is so important that we cannot tighten our belts and undervalue it with a programme which has such a small budget .
Today the programme is in place and therefore I believe we have achieved something important , that distinguishing mark of the European Union called the URBAN programme .
However , I would like to address Commissioner Barnier and support the argument of Commissioner Wulf-Mathies and the Director-General , because I think they were absolutely right .
The urban dimension must be incorporated much more deeply in all the structural funds .
Organisations of disabled people and disabled people ' s non-disabled representatives must have a proper interest at every stage of decision-making .
That is why this Parliament has put forward paragraphs 10 and 15 of the resolution , to ensure that Member States cannot ignore any one target group .
Disabled people have too often been left off the list .
Former ADAPT projects range from the CORE project , which has developed new supply chains for the car industry in Bedfordshire , to projects to raise standards in small businesses in Hertfordshire in Essex .
We have seen the NOW project helping 70 women to return to work in Suffolk , many of whom were able to come and share the results of their experience directly with us at the European Parliament in Brussels .
EQUAL remains important to us because it is precisely in relatively more prosperous regions that lower-skilled jobs are being shed , which can be an important first destination for those discriminated against in the labour market .
Finally , a word on INTERREG .
It really is quite nonsensical that partnerships set up in 1994 are being rolled over now to the exclusion of new inter-regional links .
During this period the ports of Great Yarmouth and Harwich on the Essex-Suffolk-Norfolk coast have launched significant new transportation and economic links with partners in the Netherlands .
I urge Parliament to support our Amendment No 2 , which would ensure flexibility so as to include new areas , particularly on maritime borders .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , for the information of the House , Mr President , I should like to make a clarification .
Chancellor Schssel ' s government will maintain the refugee policy of the former social democratic government led by Chancellor Klima .
There is no change in refugee policy in Austria !
Rural areas make up over 80 % of the EU ' s territory and 25 % of the population live in them .
As a farmer and Member of Parliament , I have always endeavoured not to look at agriculture in isolation but to see rural areas as a whole .
I should like to welcome in particular the new LEADER + programme because of its comprehensive nature .
In the future it will be possible to have programmes not only in the individual zones eligible for structural aid but in all the regions of the EU .
This across-the-board approach is sensible because the programmes for rural development are also structured in this way .
In the future , funding will no longer come from three funds but from the EAGGF Guidance section alone .
It will therefore be necessary to increase the quality of the programmes because the EAGGF is supposed to be an effective financial instrument .
Greater precision in the selection process will lead to greater effectiveness , because the money should not be squandered recklessly .
In addition , I should particularly like to emphasise the point which offers an approach towards creating an integrated and environmentally friendly development strategy .
There is great potential for future job creation in rural areas here and we must exploit this if we wish to offer fresh prospects to people living in the countryside .
That is why policy for rural areas is more than a policy just for farmers .
LEADER + should supplement already existing programmes , avoid overlaps and duplication of financing and thus contribute to a process of development which is as comprehensive as possible .
The Commission would have abolished URBAN , but this time Parliament drew the longer straw .
It is good that URBAN is to continue , as it has had good results at local level .
The problems in Europe ' s urban areas are getting worse ; fortunately , we now have consensus with the Commission .
The majority of the population of Europe live in cities , and their problems are among the most pressing within the context of regional policy and very complex matters in themselves .
There is an immense risk of exclusion .
In many cities in France and England there are now slums , breeding grounds for many sorts of problems .
None of us wants South American type favelas in Europe .
We have to act now , before it is too late .
Our cities are also of decisive importance for Europe ' s economy .
We always come back to the same basic problem in Europe : our economy does not support the individual sufficiently , nor is it sufficiently dynamic .
The economy has to be strong for us to be able to attend to the problems of our fellow-citizens and our environment .
This is not policy ; it is life ' s simple logic .
It is good that spending has become focused , as otherwise the buckshot gets scattered to the four winds .
Now we have to concentrate on solving problems in small and middle-size towns and cities , as they do not have enough resources .
In this way we will also be able to speed up matters in surrounding rural areas ; it is often forgotten that urban and rural problems in fact go hand in hand .
The basis for all this is that we should be encouraging individual innovation and entrepreneurship , as group action begun by the individual will help revitalise an area internally .
Mr President , with the implementation of INTERREG III , European cooperation policy is entering a new phase .
Our attention is no longer focused exclusively on internal borders but also on external ones .
The Union ' s borders must no longer be an obstacle to balanced development , but - on the contrary - an opportunity , a bridge to more fruitful cooperation .
That is a reduction of 3  % compared with the previous CIs .
No more than EUR 2.8 billion is provided for EQUAL , as Mrs Stenzel ' s balanced report makes clear .
This makes the large number of amendments and far too long a wish list of possible tasks all the more astonishing .
How are priorities supposed to be set here ?
There is agreement on the principle that marginalisation , discrimination and inequalities on the labour market should be reduced .
Transnational strategies are intended to make it possible for disadvantaged groups to have access to jobs .
I have no sympathy for amendments once again backing the TAOs .
Criticism of the previous Commission ' s work was particularly severe , legitimately so , with regard to these Technical Assistance Offices .
Our Committee on Employment and Social Affairs was , after all , in overall charge of analysing considerable shortcomings and failures to carry out checks in cases related to LEONARDO .
The Commission cannot therefore be relieved of direct responsibility or the task of carrying out inspections under EQUAL either .
The Commission must therefore be the guarantor of the strategic framework for promoting ability to work and quality of work , of the assessment of results and of the effective communication of best practices .
Only then will it be possible for the desired multiplier effect to be achieved .
Mr President , I want to refer to the Commission proposals on the budget line to promote the CAP .
On 26 October 1999 the European Commission adopted a proposal to ensure that a legal basis is given to the budget line informing the public about the CAP .
This proposal will remove the current budget line B2-5122 and create a new budget heading B1-382 .
Actions which promote understanding between young farmers and the EU and also create stronger links with EU candidate countries and the outside world are important .
Therefore I am putting forward these amendments to Parliament to give its support to the contributions of this type of programme .
Given the need to encourage young farmers to continue in farming it is vitally important that they are well-informed about developments in the common agricultural policy .
Informing and training young farmers at European level is vitally important .
I would ask you to support that part of the available budget should be concentrated on the development of knowledge amongst European young farmers .
Regarding information and training , in the past this budget line has been allocated for information , communication and training .
But the Commission is now proposing that training should no longer be included . I feel that training should be included where it provides relevant information at European level about the CAP .
Such European training is one element in ensuring that young farmers have the necessary knowledge of the CAP to make sound business decisions for the future .
Therefore I am putting forward three amendments .
I would urge Parliament to support them .
Secondly , to promote and stimulate economic activity and social life within these historic centres , within these old quarters of our cities .
These people live in areas which should benefit from these projects .
I think however that you will all recognise your own comments .
Firstly on the subject of the URBAN programme and the maximum threshold of fifty towns , which a number of you termed arbitrary .
I can understand your concern .
That is my initial response to the threshold question .
Third point : specific measures in favour of some social groups - some speakers mentioned them - women , but also immigrants and refugees , must be envisaged .
This concern , ladies and gentlemen , lies at the very heart of our URBAN initiative , and I am willing to rewrite the text , if necessary , in order to make this message clearer yet .
Regarding URBAN , I should like to conclude with the implementation procedure and mention , first of all , the selection procedure .
Some speakers wanted it to be less bureaucratic , more transparent , and to avoid redundancy in terms of the projects and funding .
Ladies and gentlemen , on this point we must make it clear : in the context of subsidiarity , the selection of zones or municipalities eligible for URBAN is primarily the responsibility of the Member States .
A second observation , the time limits for the submission of programmes and the possibility of submitting a planning supplement in addition to the programmes .
I have no objection to the idea of submitting a planning supplement jointly with the main programme .
This cannot , however , be grounds for an extension of the original time limit .
Let me remind you that the time limit for this programme is six months .
With regard to URBAN , I should like to conclude with a final observation .
One of you expressed a wish that these urban issues should not be confined to the URBAN initiative .
I agree completely .
I am not forgetting , and we cannot forget , that 80 % of the citizens of Europe today live in towns and that is why this URBAN instrument is extremely important .
Let me repeat what I have said , we shall be most attentive to the inclusion of urban issues in all structural fund programming .
Having made these general observations , I should like to focus on your main comments with regard to INTERREG .
The first relate to the timetable and the content of this initiative .
You comment that these guidelines were adopted at too late a date , stressing , particularly your rapporteur , the risk that the previous programmes will be interrupted .
It is true , I admit it , and you are well aware of the reasons , ladies and gentlemen .
There is a delay in adopting the INTERREG guidelines in March or April 2000 .
I accept this ; I take note of it as you do .
I note , however , that the Member States and the regions are already actively preparing the programmes for INTERREG III and indeed the guidance project was distributed over three months ago now .
So much for the first comment .
Third point : interregional cooperation , the importance of strand C. The Commission shares the observations made by this House regarding the importance of strand C , interregional cooperation .
As your rapporteur has requested , I shall send you the detailed information regarding the system for the implementation of this strand .
Fourth observation : the European Observatory and the possible use of a technical assistance office .
I also wish to express my concern to ensure good cooperation between INTERREG and the EDF , particularly for the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean .
All this should make it possible for us , apart from the Objective 1 appropriations and also with them , to confirm the role of ' active frontier ' of the Union .
Another point : the coordination between INTERREG , PHARE , TACIS and MEDA .
It is true , once again , and I accept this objectively , that there are still real legal problems .
The Commission must continue along these lines .
I am making a personal commitment to do so .
Finally , on the subject of technical assistance , on which your rapporteur and several of you commented .
According to the general regulations , however , any technical assistance scheme which can claim a connection with a Community initiative must be proposed under Article 20 , and not Article 23 .
This means that the ceiling of 0.25 % mentioned in Article 23 does not apply with regard to this type of technical assistance .
My conclusion regarding INTERREG , Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , is that these Community initiatives for which I am responsible fulfil a real need and everything that has been said is proof of this .
They also foreshadow a real European regional planning policy within our enlarged Union .
The Commission attaches the greatest importance to this , just as you yourselves do .
So we are working within this framework and not outside it .
Everything that I have just said , ladies and gentlemen , demonstrates that the Commission is resolved to taken the views of Parliament into account .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , I should like firstly to thank Mr Procacci for his report .
This initiative should give the countryside new impetus to develop and test new and original ideas , ideas which it is then intended should at a later stage be incorporated in the general programmes as models .
In addition , I note that Parliament shares the Commission ' s view that the preferred form for implementing LEADER + is the use of global grants .
Turning now to some of the individual questions raised here today , I can also confirm that we wish to have the widest possible partnership and participation in LEADER + .
The various groups , be they environmental organisations or groups concerned with employment , have the possibility of taking part in drafting the Commission directives .
And there will not be less funds available than in the current period either ; there will be more .
I should also like to remind you that the idea of setting up an observatory is nothing new .
There was also an observatory under LEADER I and LEADER II .
It has one purpose only and that is precisely to maintain active networking between the individual LEADER groups .
The cost of this observatory is not permitted to exceed 2 % of the LEADER budget .
I now come to the content of the report .
In point 14 , Parliament calls on the Commission to submit an evaluation report on LEADER II immediately .
We therefore think that it would be more sensible to wait until the programme ' s conclusion before carrying out the evaluation .
We will obviously do this and will also forward a report to you on it .
In point 18 , Parliament suggests publishing a compendium of examples of successful initiatives .
In response I can only say that this already exists .
It has already been compiled by the Commission and I can make a copy available to any Member of this House who is interested .
In point 21 , Parliament stresses that the guidelines in LEADER + now need to be adopted quickly so that the programmes can start .
I can only fully share your concern .
I assume that the Commission will then be able to adopt the definitive version of the guidelines in March or April .
And as soon as these are published in the Official Journal the remaining months - in fact six months - can be used to submit LEADER + programmes .
I believe that it is important to point out one thing : expenditure effected under LEADER + is eligible from the time that the Commission programme starts running .
For all programmes submitted before 30 April of this year it will be possible to backdate the beginning of the period of eligibility to 1 January .
Finally , under point 20 the motion for a resolution contains seven specific proposals for amendments to the guidelines .
Having given them thorough consideration , I can tell you that the proposals made under paragraphs 2 , 4 , 5 and 7 are acceptable to the Commission and are adopted .
The proposal in paragraph 6 will also be partly accepted because it reaffirms that the time allowed for approving programmes under LEADER + is a maximum of 5 months .
That therefore leaves only the amendment proposed under paragraph 3 . The Commission can only endorse this request because of course it corresponds precisely to what the Commission itself had originally proposed .
I must add , however , that cooperation between our action groups and similar groups in third countries went too far for the Member States .
An amendment was therefore made in the committee , but the Commission will now again take account of Parliament ' s concern in the revised version and table the guidelines in that form .
It will also continue to fight for Member States ' acceptance of this .
I will comment briefly on the 13 amendments tabled .
Here there are only three which the Commission cannot accept , Amendments Nos 3 , 12 and 13 . It can accept all of the others either in full or in essence .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , it is an exceptionally fortunate circumstance that we are debating the EQUAL initiative in the European Parliament just at this time .
Recently , because of political developments in Austria , there is growing unease within Europe . Political demonstrations are taking place as well as political dialogue .
It is worth stressing that both Parliament and the Commission must put forward specific policies .
We need specific proposals , both for legislation and for action programmes associated with the fight against discrimination and the formation of free and fair societies .
So I will make brief mention of the package against discrimination and take this opportunity to ask the competent parliamentary committees to appoint their rapporteurs so that we can move ahead with the anti-discrimination package as soon as possible .
I now come to the EQUAL initiative , which is , of course , based on Article 13 .
The EQUAL initiative relates to all forms of discrimination within the meaning of Article 13 , namely the fight against discrimination based on race , gender , age , and special needs .
The first comment , which has been made by many others too , is whether women should be mentioned separately .
So on the basis of the Treaty as it stands today , the EQUAL initiative is structured in that way .
I have classified the issues raised by the honourable Members into four groups .
Firstly , the enlargement of the thematic areas .
As in employment strategy , there are four thematic areas : employability , entrepreneurship , adaptability and equal opportunities , and we agree that those thematic areas should be enlarged in line with the European Parliament ' s proposals .
The second subject is flexibility and simplification .
I agree with Mr Leinen that the wording of the initiative is indeed very difficult and hard to understand .
That is why the services are already trying to revise the text , simplify its structure and make its wording easier to grasp .
This would allow Member States great flexibility to tailor development cooperation to their own particular needs .
Of course , a prerequisite for that is cooperation between the Member States , and a network which will assist the exchange of experience .
Finally , I would like to mention technical assistance .
Since there has been great involvement and concern about how technical assistance is to be provided , we must say that external offices will be used .
As Mr Barnier too pointed out , it is impossible for all the work previously done by external collaborators to be done now by the Commission ' s staff .
Thank you , Commissioner .
I shall convey your wish that the rapporteurs should be quickly appointed for the files you mentioned to my colleagues in the Bureau and to the appropriate committees .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon .
( The sitting was closed at 8.40 p.m. )
Approval of the Minutes of the two previous sittings
The Minutes of the sittings of Thursday 3 February and Monday 14 February have been distributed .
The Minutes of 3 February were originally distributed in Brussels so perhaps this is why some Members did not receive them .
Are there any comments ?
( The Minutes were approved )
Madam President , my habit is always to be here for the opening of the part-session on Monday afternoons at 5.00 p.m.
If Air France insists on boycotting the European Parliament , we should take measures to prevent this occurring again .
Thank you , Mr Medina Ortega .
I too wholeheartedly regret this situation .
Would you be so kind as to write to me so that I have proof with which to tackle the competent authorities of both Air France and the French Government ?
This situation really cannot continue and we must therefore protest most strongly .
Madam President , I had the same experience as Mr Medina Ortega yesterday .
I feel that the French authorities - which have the honour of housing the European Parliament in Strasbourg - should be aware of their responsibility to ensure adequate connections with all the capitals of the Union .
Absolutely , Mr Napolitano . Thank you .
She could not be here because she was arrested yesterday morning during an anti-nuclear demonstration in Glasgow .
Although her identity was noted and her position as a Member of the European Parliament was very apparent , she was still held in custody all day .
Thank you , Mr Lannoye .
I have received your letter and have already contacted the British Permanent Representative .
Madam President , I should like to make a request in connection with today ' s vote which I started to make yesterday during the debate on the EQUAL report .
I should like the vote on the Community EQUAL initiative to be postponed because we need a bit more time to negotiate an important point .
I am optimistic and quite relaxed and confident about the vote ; we shall gain broad support for this opinion on EQUAL .
We just need a bit more time to work out the details on the asylum question and I would therefore request that the vote be postponed from this morning .
Madam President , to follow on from the point that Mr Lannoye made : Mrs Lucas was arrested just outside Glasgow for protesting against the Trident base at Faslane .
I have a lot of sympathy with that protest .
I have , however , no sympathy for Mrs Lucas trying to hide behind her Parliamentary immunity .
I have also been arrested for protesting at Faslane .
I did not hide behind any immunity .
I took the punishment that came to me .
Mrs Lucas should do the same .
Madam President , I would like to comment on the request Mrs Stenzel has made to postpone the vote on the Community initiative EQUAL until tomorrow .
Does anyone want to speak against Mrs Stenzel ' s request , as supported by Mrs Ghilardotti ?
If not , then we will proceed to the vote .
( Parliament approved the request )
Madam President , under Rule 29 ( 4 ) you should be kept informed by political groups of any Members who have joined a new political group or who have left a political group .
Have you received any notification of any Members leaving the Group of the European People 's Party or does the Austrian People 's Party continue to sit in that political group ?
Mr Corbett , I have not received any notification .
Madam President , I am amazed at Mr Corbett ' s reaction .
He should find other ways of raising his profile than expressing views on such matters here .
We are solidly with our Austrian friends who have proven to be good Europeans in the past .
They have our full support .
( Applause )
Agenda
( Parliament gave its assent )
Commission 's strategic objectives and legislative programme
The next item is the joint debate on the Commission statements on its strategic objectives for the coming five years and the annual legislative programme for 2000 .
I therefore immediately give the floor to the President of the Commission , Mr Prodi .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , a five-year programme is an extremely important undertaking , and this is why I preferred that you be given the unabridged text of the speech , which is available in four languages .
Let us remember that for half a century , Europe has provided us with peace , security and freedom and a united Europe has also contributed to giving us a period of unprecedented prosperity .
The crisis in the Commission was , in fact , a crucial point in the relationship between Europe and its citizens , and the low turnout at the European elections was a worrying indication of this .
This is not the first time this has happened : Europe was once confronted with a similar transformation , an explosion of its markets , a change in its points of reference and a different view of the world .
I am referring to the sixteenth century when the discovery of America turned everything upside down .
Today , Europe is facing a similar challenge , and we know that , just as history has been unforgiving in the past , it will not be forgiving in the present .
But more vital still is a Europe that feels strong in the political arena .
In years past , the single market and the single currency have been the pivotal point of our actions , the mainstay of European life .
The Commission has therefore adopted the strategic programme for 2000-2005 , a programme that was immediately sent to the European Parliament and with which you are already familiar , so I will not go into detail about it now .
Some of you may find it lacks detail , but no political structure sets out detailed five-year programmes .
This is the European Union , not the Soviet Union .
These will be our major guidelines for action over the next five years .
This is an effective , transparent way to proceed and involve all the European institutions and the citizens of Europe .
But it is not only enlargement that is urging us towards this rethink : as I said a few moments ago , it is also economic and political globalisation itself .
It will not be a philosophical Paper , but a practical Paper , full of focused proposals .
I have asked all the Commissioners - and I shall ask them once again in a still more analytical way - to pinpoint all the activities that we can forgo .
As for internal reform , you well know how committed my Commission has been to this since day one .
Providing aid rapidly , when it is needed , saves human lives ; in many cases providing it late is worse than not providing it at all .
When I speak about external aid , my thoughts immediately turn to the Balkans . There is cause for hope thanks to the commitment of our workers on the ground , an extraordinary commitment given our organisational problems .
This is the new element that we must help to bring to the Balkans .
We must increase our efficiency in this area . We must reopen the Danube to boats .
It is contradictory to offer aid to Romania and Bulgaria yet leave these countries unable to harness their greatest resource .
We must decontaminate the river and , in view of this , over the next few days the Commissioner responsible for the environment will be putting forward specific plans to monitor this serious problem .
We have done a lot in the Balkans : the new European Reconstruction Agency for Kosovo , the Balkans Task Force and new regulations to speed up procedures .
Nevertheless , we definitely have to do more .
If we do not do this , we shall have failed in our duty .
This is what we need to do for the Balkans .
Europe must prove - in the Balkans and the rest of the world - its ability to extend the area of security , peace and freedom and its ability to take a leading role on the international stage .
We are clearly , once again , returning to enlargement , which must be put into practice in tandem with the extension of the area of security , peace and freedom .
We have made many promises in this regard , but I believe we shall succeed in keeping our promises even though we have a very delicate path to tread .
There will be friendship , calm , openness but also a certain strictness in the enlargement process .
I repeat : we must reassure public opinion in those countries that wish to join but we need to provide public opinion in our own Member States with even greater reassurance .
Our responsibilities do not stop at enlargement , or at the Balkans .
In this regard , we have a responsibility towards the whole of Africa .
We need to provide alternative answers , otherwise episodes such as those seen in Seattle will be repeated over and over and will come to hamper one of Europe ' s positive roles in history .
All over the world , Europe ' s actions must be guided by a deep respect for the principles of freedom and respect for the rights of individuals and minorities .
We should remember that we , the European Union , are a union of minorities : we are all a minority within Europe .
There are concerns even within the Fifteen , concerns which may even surface again in the next decade .
Some people have criticised me over the congratulatory message I sent to Chancellor Schssel .
My message to you is : do not take the necessary and proper courtesies of form to mean that I have been less firm in the content .
Reread the letter : The reference to the fundamental values of the Union is taken - and this is more than mere coincidence - from Article 6 of the Treaty , I repeat , Article 6 of the Treaty .
I would also ask you whether you believe that any other European head of government has ever been reminded of these principles by the Commission when they were elected .
This is what we wish to do : maintain our role as a supranational structure , maintain the role conferred on us by the Treaties , but also be unwavering on principles and make judgements based on facts .
Last November , the Commission tabled a proposal for an anti-racism directive .
I would ask the Council to adopt it swiftly and I would ask Parliament to help us with this action which will further strengthen the fundamental bases of our social cohesion .
I will quickly conclude by mentioning the last two points of our programme : the economy and quality of life .
I have already talked about the economy : we well know which basic ingredients will set Europe on the path towards a lasting recovery which will in turn create more jobs .
The forthcoming Lisbon Summit on these issues - dissemination of technology , employment - will be a decisive summit .
It has taken four years for us to be in a position to hold a summit of this kind .
We are at last holding it and cannot let this opportunity slip through our fingers .
Finally , our last commitment is to improve quality of life .
We have opened this chapter with the White Paper on Food Safety : we now need to make significant headway in the environment sector .
The Erika oil slick and the contamination of the Danube demonstrates the pressing need for European scale intervention to safeguard the environment .
The time has come to discuss , and then establish , a body for emergency civil protection in Europe .
All too often we find ourselves calling for this after a disaster has occurred .
I think it would be appropriate to begin thinking about these things before disasters happen .
These are the challenges that we - the Commission but also all the other European institutions - are facing .
How will we judge , ladies and gentlemen , Madam President , the five years of our mandate ?
How are we going to assess the results of these five years ?
I do not know , but one benchmark we could certainly use is the challenge we must take up together .
Let us take a very simple parameter : turnout at the next European elections .
If it is higher than at the previous elections , it will mean that we have successfully met our challenge .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , we are faced with all these major political challenges , but precisely because of the recovery that is now underway , we are also faced with major opportunities .
This , ladies and gentlemen , could be the decade of Europe .
Indeed , I would say that this must be the decade of Europe .
We also welcome the conclusions which we find in this document .
And we welcome the broad outlines of the speech which President Prodi has just given .
We read in the conclusions in the document that the five-year term of office of the Prodi Commission will be a time of major changes .
Europe will press ahead with integration ; at the same time the Union will start an enlargement process which will , in the end , reunite our continent .
A demanding , ambitious , perhaps even prophetic task and we wish you every success , Mr President of the Commission .
However , we consider that the present is the basis of the future and we shall only be able to shape the future if we prove our worth in the present .
I say that in all earnestness and I have chosen my words carefully .
I refer to the current debate on the present conflicts in the European Union .
We in the European Union are one Community .
We belong together , even when there are problems .
Now is not the time to isolate but to unite and to complete together the task of unifying Europe .
Mr President of the Commission , you have represented and defended the European Parliament time and again over recent weeks .
You have seen yourself as the guardian of the Treaties , and that is indeed your role .
For that and for the letter to the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria which you mentioned , we expressly respect , acknowledge and support you .
( Applause )
Mr President of the Commission , our objectives are one and the same : we want a strong Europe in the twenty-first century , a democratic Europe which is able to act .
Europe ' s message , the European Union ' s message to the world should not be one of arrogance or even European nationalism , no ; it must be one of cooperation , partnership and peaceful development .
Globalisation gives us the chance to shape the world , which is becoming smaller and smaller , as a world of peaceful competition and solidarity .
Seen in this light , globalisation is more of an opportunity than a danger , more of a coming together than a segregation , more mutual enrichment than separation .
But we also know that we can only shape the huge challenge of globalisation together as Europeans .
But we also say : we want to defend this European Community of tolerance , which is why a common foreign , security and defence policy is so important .
Negotiations with six central European countries are starting today , bringing the European family a step closer together .
We agree with what you said about the Barcelona process . All the countries in the Mediterranean area must acknowledge human dignity , democracy and the rule of law .
We therefore take the uncompromising view that we must maintain a resolute and consistent stability pact .
We need structural reforms in the European economy .
Most importantly , we need to restore a European economy in which performance pays and people can work as entrepreneurs .
It would be Europe ' s undoing if we were to end up with just a few multinationals and no future for small and medium-sized businesses in Europe .
( Applause ) The Commission has an important role to play here by getting a coordinated policy under way with the nation states to reduce taxes so that entrepreneurship pays .
We too want to help put Europe on its feet .
You spoke in your paper of decentralisation and subsidiarity .
We support that .
The nations , regions , towns and communities of Europe will be preserved .
I merely mention it as an example of where we must take care and where I would recommend that we try to achieve more legal security in the future .
Mr President of the Commission , allow me to close with these words : as the Group of the European People ' s Party and the European Democrats , we have every interest in a strong Commission .
If you are persuasive in your actions , we all reap the benefits .
In this respect we wish you every success . However , we are also aware of our role as the Commission ' s watchdog .
We must preserve this law and peace in the European Union if we are to be able to go forth as peacemakers in the world .
( Applause )
We are breaking new ground and doing so in complex circumstances .
What we need here is good government , Madam President .
Since we are recovering from a very complex crisis , we must try to enhance our institutions and give them substance .
I would like to point out that , within this broad consensus , there were some Groups which said that the majority of Parliament should form an opposition to the majority of the Council .
It is precisely this which , in a sense , is hindering the important process of developing codecision within the legislative programme .
I am pointing this out because I believe that our support for the Commission also has to lead to continuity in the work carried out throughout the legislature .
On the other hand , we are witnessing the birth of a political Europe , which entails a collection of shared values which we all agree upon , and a European Union at the service of the citizens .
I have absolutely no doubt about this and I believe it is an essential point .
In this regard , Madam President , I would like to say that we should remain aware and watch our language .
Last week , the new Minister for Finance of the Austrian coalition described the Austrian Parliament as a farce and a theatre .
Those of us who have had to live under a dictatorship know of the existence of dictatorships with cardboard governments .
There can be no democracy without a living parliament .
I believe that this type of language is extremely dangerous and I would like to condemn it here and now .
With regard to the four great priorities which President Prodi systematically refers to and with regard to his analysis of the challenges facing us , I would say that we are very much in agreement .
Nevertheless , I would point out to the Commission that , as far as the Socialist Group is concerned , there has been a change of priorities .
We must argue for equality of the sexes , the famous ' gender mainstreaming ' , which is one of the least developed questions in the Prodi Commission ' s programme .
This means prioritising sex equality , the adaptation of the social model and , above all , an unequivocal fight against populism whenever our economic and social cohesion is under threat .
This must also be a main priority in the work of the Commission .
I believe that this is the first objective for us to pursue .
In this respect I would also add another element , which is economic government , given the single currency , and I believe this is inescapable .
This is another question on which the Commission must make progress .
Does the Commission think that there will be never be any revision ?
The issue of taxation also seems to us to be absolutely essential .
With regard to governance in general , I believe it might be worth thinking in theoretical terms .
I would like to remind you of one thing : it is dangerous to rethink the entire governance of the European Union from here .
I would be clearly in favour of subsidiarity .
If we are capable of defining what our area of governance is , I think that would be very positive .
In all other areas , I believe that subsidiarity is also relevant to this discussion .
Not only should the Commission discuss this , but also our states , our parliaments and our civil society .
We must not forget Africa , a continent which has been forsaken , not only by God , but also by Europe , nor our important contribution to cooperating with development .
It means the reform of the United Nations and the international financial institutions , for which Europe has an enormous responsibility .
This is a fundamental way to increase and strengthen their confidence in us . I hope this will be demonstrated when we hold the next European elections .
They are political because we are moving on .
Even though we have not yet finished constructing all the economic building blocks , we are moving on from that kind of functionalist building of Europe to a much more challenging political perspective .
The challenge of enlargement is political .
The challenge of creating an area of justice and home affairs , of dealing with asylum and immigration and crime , is very political .
The challenge of a common foreign security and defence policy is very political .
Because it is political it is more complex . Because it is political it is more sovereignty-sensitive .
Because it is more sovereignty-sensitive it is more voter-and citizen-sensitive .
We need , therefore , to find a way forward towards these political ends and objectives , to address , not merely the scepticism but the greatest enemy , the apathy which you identify .
The means of achieving this are difficult but they are real .
We need more dialogue , not just with each other but also with civil society .
We need more explanation of what Europe is about .
We need to be able to confront fears and anxieties , because in many instances the greatest fear is fear itself .
Perhaps with more dialogue and explanation we can overcome some of that .
My group is especially attracted to the creative possibilities you signal in regard to the prospect of a White Paper next spring addressing the issue of governance .
As we look at the Europe of networking which you describe , it is very important that Europe concentrates on its core business , that we have the courage to suggest areas where Europe may perhaps stand back .
That could convince people that Europe , in its governance , is not something run exclusively from Brussels , which concentrates and soaks up more powers , more decisions , more authority .
That is the political core of the challenge and I think you have identified it well before this House today .
We see enlargement as a process of partnership , not a process of " them and us " .
We see enlargement as a positive sum gain for member and candidate states .
We need to be able to prepare that ground carefully .
On south-eastern Europe , I agree with your view that we measure political institutions through their achievements .
In the lifetime of this Commission and this Parliament we must succeed in the task of winning the difficult and uneasy peace in south-eastern Europe .
We applaud the stabilisation and association agreements , but we would like to see more .
We will publish this material and bring it forward in the debate on the Swoboda report later this week .
The strategic paper emphasises the global role of the European Union .
Our central aim must be to give the Union a weight in global affairs commensurate with its weight in terms of aid , trade and finance .
We need to open that debate .
In conclusion , this morning , the day after St Valentine 's Day , the newspapers are saying that your honeymoon period is over .
I do not know whether you are a romantic or not , Mr Prodi .
Perhaps this is a very unromantic thing to say on such a morning .
However , we in the Liberal Group welcome this because it means we are now settling down to business .
That is the way it should be .
Madam President , Mr President of the Commission , I greatly admire the openness with which you admit that the European Union must change fundamentally .
You gave consideration to important questions of principle in your programme .
I believe that the public will start to show more interest in politics if we can tackle the major issues alongside the day-to-day ones .
At the same time , however , it has to be said that , unfortunately , your programme reminds me in many ways of a party manifesto .
There are a lot of good intentions in it , but it very much lacks concrete proposals concerning how this can all be achieved .
As in any other party manifesto , it is full of contradictions .
I would like to take this opportunity to help you recognise them .
First let me speak about the economy and social development .
We have to be able to think hard about how we can coordinate the aim of competitiveness with the aim of full employment ; that is what was mentioned in your programme .
Do please raise this issue at the intergovernmental conference .
The EU can only achieve authority in the fact that it focuses on tasks that individual countries cannot attend to alone .
In this respect , Parliament will definitely defend , along with yourselves , the importance of supranational decision-making .
One contradiction within your programme relates to globalisation .
I think it is very creditable that you should mention the concept of ' global administration ' , as others too have said here .
You must embark on a dialogue with the international community .
Do please try to make the international organisations democratic .
The European Union could be critically important in a process in which the United Nations and the WTO really do become subject to democratic monitoring .
We can submit motions for this together with you .
Finally , I consider it a very positive sign that you speak so often about the civil society , although , unfortunately , this is another contradiction .
You ought to also be able to draw conclusions at the IGC .
We have to table motions proposing that our citizens might really have a direct impact on decision-making .
What you just said is absolutely true : people want more engaged democracy .
In my opinion , this is the only way if we want to gain the approval of the people with regard to Europe and their interest in Europe too .
The main merit of the text of this communication is therefore the fact that it exists .
We are also pleased to see certain statements and intentions which it contains and which Mr Prodi has just underlined and , in some cases , usefully clarified .
There are plenty of areas for serious discussion .
We will carefully study the planned White Papers and will participate constructively in the work begun or promised .
A more balanced and more rigorous diagnosis would be welcome in my view .
My second criticism follows on from the first .
But all is not lost .
My group is fully intent on helping with this work .
Madam President , reforming and democratising the institutions of the European Union are central to the historic and moral challenge of the enlargement process .
This was the opening statement of Commission President , Prodi , when he presented the strategic objectives of the European Commission for the next five years .
We await the White Paper on the governance of the European Union dealing with the issue of balance between Member States ' governments and the European Union institutions which is to be published this summer .
On this specific point I think it is important that we address the reform of the internal decision-making procedures of the Commission .
The Commission , in its proposals to the forthcoming intergovernmental conference , has indicated that its preference lies in seeing smaller Member States lose their automatic right to nominate a member of the European Commission .
This is a scenario whereby the European Union has a membership of over 25 Member States .
I do not want to see a two-tier European Union built .
I believe this would fly in the face of the spirit and objective of the Treaty of Rome and all subsequent treaties .
There must be equality in terms of national representation within the Commission and within all the other European institutions .
More or less each of the 50 states in the US has two elected positions in the United States Senate , regardless of its population .
Any future reforms of the European Union treaties will require a referendum to be held in my country .
Undoubtedly , reform of the European Council is also going to be included in this White Paper on the governance of the European Union which will be published this summer .
Once again there are special areas of policy-making which should be left to the domain of the national Member States .
I do not believe that there is broad support in Europe for the introduction of qualified majority voting on taxation , justice and home affairs , and foreign affairs at European Union level .
At present , under Article 99 of the Treaty of Rome , decisions taken at EU level concerning tax changes must be by unanimity .
I believe that this proposal should remain , as a common European taxation code would diminish rather than enhance the workings of the European Union .
I support the enlargement of the European Union .
I support institutional changes so as to ensure that enlargement of the Union takes place in a streamlined and structured manner .
However , we must remember that the public opinion of 370 million people in the European Union is a vital factor in changing the EU treaties .
Changes should not be brought about too quickly and cannot be too sweeping , otherwise public opinion will make ratification of any future European Union treaty very difficult indeed .
Madam President , I am speaking on behalf of the Italian Radical Members .
President of the Commission , a short while ago you said that no political structure sets out five-year plans .
What do we expect from a government in any case ?
What do we ask of this structure - the European Community - which is , so to speak , ambiguous and unique ?
It is right for joint resources to be controlled supranationally and not to be delegated to the Member States or the TAOs , as has been the case in the past .
It seems that you are proposing the same old menu , but with more unsatisfactory implications , restricting the Commission , so you say , to the task of drawing up a few White Papers , as you proposed .
If we continue to get bogged down with proposals that have given extremely poor results so far , I do not know what we or the Commission will be able to do .
Mr Prodi , there is one positive thing that I would like to say to you , perhaps contrary to the opinion of some Members , regarding the telegram that you sent to the Austrian Government .
We approve of your position on this : you did well not to isolate that country any further .
In any case , we shall see what specific steps transpire when the time comes for practical action .
Mr Prodi , I repeat that this is , in our opinion , a slightly short-sighted view .
Above all , it lacks drive in the sectors I have mentioned , for example , as regards the Balkans .
Can we really continue to leave the Balkans out of the enlargement process , disregarding the fact that Croatia , Macedonia and other countries also have the right to a place in this House that is open to all ?
I remember your predecessor ' s speech five years ago .
You talk about decentralisation but practise centralisation .
You talk about greater transparency , but produce proposals which would lead to documents which , at present , are available for public inspection being locked away .
Your Commission consists of the only 20 people in the EU who can propose that the quantity of legislation should be reduced .
Local politicians cannot do that , once legislation has been passed in Brussels .
The legislative programme from the Commission ought at least , therefore , to be accompanied by as long a list of tasks which are to be referred back to the Member States and to the processes of popular democracy .
Otherwise , the number of laws produced in Brussels will just keep on growing .
We have passed 10 000 laws and as many amendments , and the applicant States have had 26 000 documents sent to them which , as debated by the Polish parliament , fill 140 000 sides of paper .
Even by this stage , that is already too many by far .
I should also just like to draw Mr Dell ' Alba ' s attention to what the founding fathers of the European Union dreamed of .
Take a look at Jean Monet ' s memoirs .
What he envisaged was what he called a small , practical secretariat .
That is not what Mr Prodi is President of today .
We accept that Europeans , particularly the younger generation , need to be given a broad perspective of where Europe will be in the years ahead .
But how are we to succeed when the resources available are limited and the credibility of our institutions is not very high ?
We need to match this vision with reality .
Here there are three elements I would like to contribute .
Firstly , we need a successful European economy .
But we must avoid lurching back into the old-style regulation , stifling individual initiative and enterprise .
We must not fear globalisation , but we must also make sure that we understand its political impact in the network society .
Without a successful European economy we cannot meet the challenges ahead , particularly of enlargement .
Secondly , we need to ensure that we legislate only when necessary - subsidiarity .
Doing less but better - a central plank of the last Commission - needs to be the aim of this Commission too .
We will be looking at this closely when we come to the annual programmes of proposed legislation .
We must establish priorities and make sure there is value for money in each of these programmes .
Lastly , we need to ensure that there is proper , genuine reform of the European Commission .
Yes , the Commission - guardian of the Treaties - is meant to be an independent body , but it also has to be accountable to European citizens through our Parliament .
The Commission is not in fact today a European government .
The Commission does not reflect the majority in this particular Parliament .
We in Parliament have a major role to play in the shaping of governance in Europe .
This governance therefore needs to be a sensitive governance so that we can actually work together and understand that each of the institutions in the European Union , has its relevant role to play .
Therefore we need to have credibility , coherence and confidence that in working together we can restore the image of the European Union to our citizens .
I fully endorse the philosophy and the principles behind these decisions .
That does not apply to Austria alone .
The Union professes its faith in its fundamental values in the Treaty of Amsterdam and the institutions of the EU confirmed this faith once again when the new coalition was formed in Austria .
When it comes down to it , Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty are not enough .
In this sense , the Commission must insist , and I should like to endorse and confirm this here , that the new Charter of Fundamental Rights become part of the Treaty and create binding , enforceable rights .
In this sense , the Commission must insist on building up the common area of freedom , security and justice and in this sense I disagree with the last two speakers .
Only reasonable , feasible and humane principles of immigration and asylum law can counter the irrational , misleading and demagogic allegations of the extreme right .
In this respect , Mr President of the Commission , I too should like to address the issue of globalisation which you speculated on and how it is perceived by large segments of the population .
The Union , like everyone else , has not yet understood how to present the EU to the citizens of the EU as a means of protection against the negative effects of globalisation .
We are in the process of building a house but too few of our citizens really feel at home in our house .
In this respect , what the Commission says about boosting Europe ' s voice is important .
In this sense , the USA is not only our partner ; it is also our competitor ; not our opponent , our competitor and we must fight to see which of us offers our citizens the best model .
I hope that what we have said so clearly and vehemently here today will also be reinforced in the Commission documents .
You have made a bold start by rightly emphasising the need to focus on so-called " core tasks " .
That , as you have said yourself today , means that you must also identify tasks , policies and programmes which are peripheral or irrelevant to the Commission 's main vocation .
Many existing European Union policies and programmes may simply have passed their sell-by date , or have been proved unwieldy or ineffective when administered at European level .
The challenge now is to have the courage to devolve as many non-core tasks as possible back to lower levels of national , regional and local government .
Madam President , Mr Prodi , I fully support the thinking of the proposals made by my colleague , Mrs Hautala , on the Commission ' s strategic objectives for the coming five years .
I myself want to refer to a subject which has not been mentioned but which is on the agenda , namely the Commission ' s work programme for 2000 .
Rather , I want to start by welcoming certain proposals which you have made in this programme for 2000 .
These include all the proposals on food safety which are ambitious and important and those on maritime safety which are particularly important given the two oil slicks which have affected the coast of Brittany and Turkey .
The Commission should react quickly in this respect .
However , on other issues the proposals could be more ambitious and faster acting .
I have some positive suggestions to make , particularly on the social area , the environment and the follow-up to Seattle .
Firstly , you have said that the citizens of Europe must be reconciled with the institutions .
This is self-evident and it is therefore essential to find out their main concerns .
For example , in the social area , it is not enough to announce a communication on a programme of social action .
We must move faster .
You must submit a new social action programme to us by the end of the year .
The issue of company closures and mass redundancies is one which has been and still is very firmly in the news .
On the environment , you have announced a proposal for a decision on a sixth action programme on the environment .
This is all very well but it seems that the text to be proposed will not contain any specific objectives or a timetable for implementation . Perhaps you can correct me on this .
I personally feel that it is essential to have precise objectives and a proper timetable for implementation .
In terms of civil liability for the environment , it is right that we finally have a White Paper .
However , Parliament did ask for a legislative initiative six years ago .
The White Paper clearly foreshadows this legislation but for when ?
You must realise that this process needs to be accelerated .
Finally , after Kyoto , we should be able to rapidly produce precise proposals .
Finally , on the subject of the WTO , the idea of relaunching a new global round is not necessarily bad .
However , in the first place , the Commission should make proposals on changing the operational rules of the WTO .
The Commission has a role both within the EU and throughout the world .
The European Union must therefore instigate a re-evaluation of the WTO ' s operation which must lead to precise proposals being made on its rules .
Madam President , you spoke about fundamental political values , and one of the fundamental political values , even more important than democracy , is respect for others .
Enlargement - and Alleanza Nazionale has been repeating this for ten years in this House - must not mean dilution , that is , it must not entail more risks .
Even today , we do not have definite answers regarding the monitoring of the nuclear power stations in the eastern republics .
I would also like to say a few words on Africa , Madam President .
The third and fourth worlds have been abandoned : just one dollar , one and a half euro would be enough to save a great many children .
Europe , which is so democratic , so progressive , does not speak out or take these tragic problems on board , while half of Africa is dying of Aids and other diseases .
One final remark regarding the Internet and globalisation .
Globalisation of the economy must not be reduced to product and quality certification , just as the globalisation of politics must not come to mean levelling of values or dampening of hopes and enthusiasm .
The peoples which do not participate and gradually grow more distant will leave the way open for an oligarchy that will take power and leave control in the hands of a few .
As for the Internet , Europe has finally found the courage to say that we need rules .
On a personal note , please allow me at this time to congratulate the pirates who , by acting the way they are , are forcing the world to reflect on the only system which is currently unregulated .
We live in a world of rules and regulations : let us regulate the Internet too and give our fellow citizens rules and hope for the future .
Madam President , as a Padanian taxpayer , I have already experienced the vice-like grip of the taxman and former Prime Minister of Italy , Mr Prodi , since Padania is liable to Italy for its taxes as well .
But why do they not buy their own entrance ticket ?
Madam President , Mr President of the Commission , Members of the Commission , five months after its coming into office , the Commission committed to paper the direction in which it aims to steer the European Union .
The ensuing document is both ambitious and bombastic .
Is it not rather melodramatic to say that " the world looks up to Europe " ?
Moreover , Europe as a continent is a great deal more than just the fifteen EU Member States .
It is not rather ambitious to ensure peace , democracy and human rights in the whole of Europe , no less ?
I am particularly intrigued by how the Commission considers bringing this about .
Does " the European integration model as a rich source for global administration " imply the export of a large-scale perspective and concentration of power ?
According to the Commission , external policy can succeed , provided everyone knows exactly who is in charge !
So who is this then ?
The Commission as a whole , its President perhaps , the Council ?
You stated that the new European government requires strong institutions , while the Commission wants to focus at the same time on its core tasks .
We could not agree more with the latter .
It is high time that institutions restricted their scope to actual cross-border issues and stopped decking out the European cart with powers which they are taking away from national authorities .
The document mentions common values on different occasions .
Unfortunately , I find the reference to the relevant standards to be lacking .
This raises the question as to what these standards and values are based on .
I am convinced that the Bible , God ' s word , is the only pure source of proper standards and real values .
In the tradition of our continent , this realisation is an important one which merits recognition .
Madam President , Mr President of the Commission , ladies and gentlemen , I am not sure which to go by : the strategic objectives for 2000 to 2005 or your speech for 2000 to 2010 ?
Have you already included your second term of office ?
But seriously .
As it enlarges , the Union needs to be strengthened through streamlining and demarcation .
First , streamlining .
What you say in your programme about concentrating on the core functions of the Commission is only the beginning .
The activities of the entire Union must be reduced to core areas of policy .
In other words , a social , ecologically-orientated market , a secure currency , guaranteed civil rights internally and representation of common interests externally .
It is not just that we need to speak out in the world with one voice ; it is what we want to say with this voice that it is important .
Secondly , the new " in " word is flexibility .
However , increasing flexibility can or quickly threatens to turn into intergovernmentalisation .
We must hold fast to joint decision-making institutions which embrace the Member States .
That also applies to the inclusion of the civil society , which is a welcome step .
Our citizens do not need any new institutions and certainly no new mixing of powers .
( Applause )
Transparency does not mean more access to more paper ; to our citizens , transparency means greater clarity at long last as to who takes decisions in Brussels and Strasbourg , when and with what right .
That is transparency .
Thirdly , the European Union cannot and should not enlarge endlessly .
Its borders are set not by how may countries want to join , but by how many countries it can accommodate .
( Applause )
If the price of enlargement is the watering-down or even the break-up of the present Union , then it must not be paid .
It is too high a price , not only for the Member States already in the Union but also for the states which want to join the Union .
There is no future for a Union which is merely a geo-strategic concept or for a Union which is merely a free trade zone .
But the Union will only continue to be more than a market and to be accredited by the people of Europe if it sees itself as a community of destinies .
That goes far beyond your new economic and social agenda or a new , better quality of life .
In doing so , we need , no less , to reinvent the European Union , but without destroying the present Union .
( Applause )
Madam President , in the opinion of the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party , the most important task of the Commission and the whole Union in the coming years is the successful realisation of enlargement .
The Commission must carry on negotiations that are a decisive attempt to have each applicant country join the Union as soon as possible .
On the other hand , we have to see to it that none of the achievements or aims of integration that have been stated thus far are watered down .
It is clear that the subject of the internal differentiation of the Union will be raised at the IGC .
The subject needs to be discussed without prejudice .
A technical improvement in the flexibility system will not be enough : we also have to raise the issue of developing our institutions for the countries in the vanguard as proposed by Jacques Delors , for example .
In this way , a decision-making system can be created that is more effective , clearer , more open and more democratic .
I hope that the Commission will make its own proposal concerning how the expanding Union might implement its institutional and other differentiation .
Madam President , Mr President of the Commission , Commissioners , your inspiring speech , Mr Prodi , has quite won me over .
It raises expectations , but it can also lead to disappointment .
This is connected to what Mr Van Velzen was just saying , about the difference between words and deeds .
The enlargement of the Union is inspired by our wish for peace , security and stability .
You are looking to reassure the acceding countries , as well as European opinion .
But these days , we are witnessing the exact reverse before our very eyes .
We have noted increasing levels of apprehension and disquiet , even within regions where unemployment is quite low and prosperity very high .
We need to make our citizens feel at home , according to Mr Swoboda , and I agree .
This is a place where we share the same values and where each and one of us also have our own task and responsibility .
This is probably linked to the standards mentioned by Mr Van Dam , namely subsidiarity .
It is necessary to have a clear division of responsibility among all levels of authority and to be partners , rather than competitors when it comes to policy .
It is also necessary to exercise authority as closely as possible to the citizens , where it can be exercised with due transparency and can be monitored by the citizens themselves .
That will require a new political culture , not only in words , but also in practice , which will take into consideration the reality of Member States and regions .
Regions which , culturally and economically , sometimes match the interest of some Member States .
The new Europe should not only expand horizontally , but also vertically , by living by our values in practice and by developing a democratic structure of a real community .
This is what the Commission will be judged on .
Madam President , the Commission is today presenting its strategic objectives for 2000-2005 . These are contained in an extremely general document in which all the problems have been glossed over to prevent any conflict .
So , in the first part on the new forms of European governance , the words ' federalism ' and ' superstate ' are not mentioned at all .
These ambiguities mask many misunderstandings , primarily about our values .
It is not enough to claim to adhere to democracy in order to be a democrat .
This Charter is really misnamed because it will actually reduce these rights .
In the Union for a Europe of Nations Group our principles are rather different .
Clearly we want to defend the countries of Europe but we also want to respect the autonomy of nations .
This is not impossible .
We must move away from the outmoded federalist schemes promoted by those whose every idea on European matters comes from the Memoires of Jean Monnet .
Instead , we must open the European institutions to the modern world by creating a flexible dynamic which respects nations .
This is the keynote idea on the new governance which we would have liked to have seen in your communication , Mr Prodi , but which is unfortunately not there .
Madam President , Mr Prodi , you claim to be shaping a new Europe yet you are lacking one basic element : confidence .
The confidence of millions of Europeans cannot be won without being worthy of this .
And how could you be worthy of this after the mad cow scandal and the resignation of the Santer Commission for corruption ?
You are responsible for millions of unemployed and for millions living in poverty , insecurity and increasing misery because of your ultra-trade-oriented and ultra-liberal policies and because of the forced march towards the single currency .
You wanted and have obtained the abolition of internal borders . Consequently , you have opened Europe up to an explosion in crime and insecurity and to a flood of uncontrolled immigration .
Not once does your twelve-page document mention the national parliaments even though they comprise the elected representatives of the people .
Clearly , they have no role to play in your strategy .
Members of this House are today speaking out against a telegram from Mr Prodi to Chancellor Schssel which , quite obviously , is not a demonstration of sympathy but rather a political manoeuvre .
Your sabre-rattling fools no one because , as you know perfectly well , whether you like it or not , you need Austria in order to reform the Treaties and harmonise savings tax .
You will cynically and hypocritically use Austria as a convenient threat to further strip the Member States of any real powers in the construction of the European Union .
Your Commissioners are clearly not solely responsible for this .
The governments which , through spinelessness or ideology , support you are also responsible .
Brussels is not all of us , as you claim . It is all of you .
Tell the truth for once . You could not care less what the people of Europe want .
They are free to choose only between your brave new world and denouncement .
It is over ten years since the collapse of the Soviet Union and yet your projects contain a strong hint of the gulags and mollifying moralism .
We were among the small number who denounced the communist dictatorship .
We are and will remain among those fighting against Europeanist dictatorship .
We call on all the people of Europe to resist your monstrous projects .
The salvation of European democracies is with nation states . Europe ' s salvation lies in the cooperation of the nations of Europe .
( Limited applause )
The fundamental element for the development of each person - his freedom , which comes before economic gain - is thus enhanced .
This social freedom , which becomes manifest in initiatives favouring the poor , gives excellent results in terms of social justice and stability .
Mr President , public institutions must not accept only the economic criterion .
Our heritage has taught us that politics must have a heart .
We hope that the White Paper and the actions of you and your Commission will put this into practice .
Madam President , Mr President of the Commission , ' Shaping the new Europe ' is an ambitious objective both for the Commission and for us all .
Our ambitions and our work will be followed not only by people in our own countries , but also by many people outside Europe and the European Union .
What sort of impression will an interested public , as well as the rest of the world , have of this five-year programme ?
Consequently , we see poverty and exclusion as the greatest enemies of peace and freedom .
I concur with what other members of my political group have said and I commend the tone of your document . However , there are two omissions which need to be addressed in our future work .
The first concerns women , gender and women 's rights .
You talked about how women can help in increasing production and growth .
That is important , but equality is not only necessary for productivity , but also to make our societies more democratic .
It is therefore noticeable that ' equality ' , ' gender ' and ' women ' are barely mentioned in ' Shaping the New Europe ' .
You mentioned ' women ' in your speech , but they are not referred to in the context of the strategic goals .
Is that because mainstreaming is already so widespread in the Commission that there is no need to mention women ?
What other explanation could there be for omitting women ?
The EU must not take on a masculine persona .
My other question concerns Africa , which is the only continent not mentioned in ' Shaping the New Europe ' .
Africa has the largest number of refugees in the world , the most overall poverty and a debilitating AIDS epidemic .
I would merely ask when this is likely to take effect .
Madam President , President of the Commission , this is a vital document for the future and fate of Europe .
However , out of all the points , two specifically require our attention , and they are closely linked : peace and stability within Europe and outside Europe .
Moreover , it will only be possible to give the Commission responsibility for the tasks it takes on according to the actual powers it will be accorded .
Without these prospects that we have outlined , Europe would , once again , have no future .
Madam President , Mr Prodi , we are pleased about the overall intention of the objectives announced which are in line with the challenges which Europe must overcome .
I note that you consider the fall of the Berlin wall to be the crucial factor of the end of the century .
This event must underpin enlargement .
Rather than using the word ' enlargement ' , I want to talk of reunification which has much greater political significance .
Your idea is to concentrate your activities on the core tasks . This is one of the goals of your reform .
In essence this means applying the principle of subsidiarity .
Precise application of this principle can only reinforce the actions taken and give our citizens a clear view of each level of competence .
However , saying is one thing and doing is another !
You must therefore fight against the tendency of all institutions to try and increase their powers .
I will therefore judge you on your deeds .
In the meantime , I approve and encourage this clearly expressed desire in your communication .
However , I must make two essential points . These concern the simplification and application of Community law .
In 1998 , 123 referrals were made to the Court of Justice for non-application or non-transposition and 25 % of environmental directives were not applied or transposed .
Recent events have shown us that these regulations are essential .
Community law must not go unapplied because it is too complex or too pedantic .
The Union must not make this mistake and I therefore regret the fact that your communication does not go into more detail on this .
You are being realistic when you say that the welfare state can no longer provide adequate responses to the problems facing us , including unemployment .
Nevertheless , I regret that a clear alternative has not been proposed .
The emphasis should have been placed on the rejection of any policy of handouts and instead on the development of initiative and responsibility .
You have not highlighted the ageing of our population which will fundamentally alter the structure of our society , not only economically but also in terms of public health .
This is a silent revolution and in this respect I expected more from your communication .
Finally , you do highlight European research as being at the heart of our future .
Yet you do not indicate the resources you intend to implement to achieve this .
Also , ethical principles are at the heart of this research but your communication says nothing about these .
If you want to better inform the people , you should start by strengthening liaison with this House , as we are the representatives of the citizens .
Madam President , we can only endorse the general guidelines of the five-year programme and of the programme for 2000 , set out with so much enthusiasm by President Prodi this morning .
Firstly , the promotion of and participation in the drafting of joint plans for the creation of an integrated services network in the transport and energy sectors , with the backing of the European Investment Bank .
Secondly , the approval of investments - where the parameters are binding when drawing up action programmes on employment - to be made in individual countries via Community projects in the priority sectors of research , innovation and training .
Madam President , Mr President of the Commission , you have come here today , Mr Prodi , in a very reformist and ambitious mood .
I welcome you and your ambition .
Ambition will be needed , given the mammoth task which awaits us .
We have 1.27 % of the Community ' s GDP .
Not a euro more or a euro less .
It will not be us who refuse these new resources . You should ask the Council .
These financial perspectives are adjusted to within a millimetre .
In order to finance the stability plan for the Balkans , we will have to negotiate a significant revision of Category 4 , and you must remember the enormous difficulties we have had in approving the 2000 budget .
I would remind you that this Group , the PPE-DE , does not like to finance new political initiatives at the expense of existing ones .
The political priorities must be set by this House and the MEPs .
Do not believe for one moment that your proposed reform of the budget will disguise the limitations of the Community financial system .
We therefore wonder whether the Commission has the political will to resolve them .
Madam President , the Commission communication is well written but sufficiently vague to allow any interpretation whatsoever .
On one hand , there are the words and , on the other , their real political meaning .
We Socialists applaud the Commission for wanting to fight against social exclusion and poverty .
Yet how can the gulf between political rhetoric and reality be filled ?
What is meant by the Commission ' s declared objective of ' economic reform ' in the labour market ?
Does this mean more flexibility , insecurity and fixed-term contracts ?
Everyone knows that quality of life and full and better employment depend on sustainable economic growth .
The Union is currently restricted to a policy of stability which is certainly necessary but insufficient .
We Socialists desperately want a European pact for growth and employment .
The ingredients of this policy are well known . They are the stimulation of public and private investment , increased investment in research , education and training and the promotion of the spirit of enterprise .
In this respect , the e-Europe initiative is to be welcomed .
In the world of new technologies , the main danger remains that access to information will be easier the richer you are .
The gulfs which are opening up everywhere are the main problem for our era .
On one hand we have the exuberance of the financial markets and the explosion of wealth and , on the other , more widespread exclusion .
We are asking workers to be flexible , innovative and ever more productive , yet the fruits of this productivity increasingly benefit the shareholders alone .
For years we have been told over and over that the economy must be liberalised .
The sectors which have been liberalised are experiencing an avalanche of mergers and acquisitions , leading inevitably to monopoly situations .
All these stock market battles are based solely on forecast increases in profit of 15 % , 20 % or 25 % which are unrealistic in the long term .
The unfettered rise in prices of financial assets and property means that the risks are on the increase .
The main danger awaiting us in the medium term is not inflation but deflation caused by the collapse of the speculative bubbles on the international financial markets .
To conclude , the next five years will be crucial .
We need new rules to regulate globalisation and we need investment in the real economy and in people .
We need the Member States and the Commission to ensure the social dimension of the market economy in a visible manner .
Madam President , Mr President of the Commission , Commissioners , in my view , this strategy paper has two clear weaknesses .
There is no point in drawing up a new economic and social agenda if you have not even finished the old one .
I am thinking of transport policy and regional policy .
You have excellent Commissioners for both issues in Mrs Palacio and Mr Barnier , yet still you attach too little importance to these areas .
And do you know why ?
Just look at transport policy ; clearly it is crucial for this policy to be drawn up as a economically and ecologically sensible policy before the accession of other countries .
I would be grateful if the President of the Commission would listen to what I have to say , although of course he has no obligation to do so .
Let me give you three examples .
First : we need reasonable deregulation of the railway sector because we want to shift freight from the roads to the railways .
That makes sense from an economic and an ecological point of view .
Without deregulation we will not make any headway with a reasonable transport policy .
The same applies to European air traffic control .
Our citizens cannot understand that we are deregulating air traffic , but leaving 15 different sectors in the skies which are under national control , which have an adverse economic impact on the airlines and which pollute the environment .
You still have not finished that agenda .
Commissioner , far too little is said in your paper about regional policy .
Economic and social cohesion in the EU is a fundamental task of this Community .
If we fail to complete it , citizens in less favoured regions will dread enlargement .
We must show them that we intend to use the next five years to help them join the rich regions by promoting the less favoured regions using reasonable means .
Then they too will be prepared to really support enlargement and help to achieve it .
Madam President , Mr President of the Commission , Commissioners , the fact that we are formulating new programmes does not mean that we should neglect those older programmes which are at implementation stage .
I hope this reference means that the reorganisation of the Commission currently in progress will not damage the mechanism for monitoring and implementing Agenda 2000 .
The Agenda 2000 issues are , of course , ones that relate to your third and fourth strategic objectives , the economic and social Agenda and a better quality of life .
What your texts do not make apparent is the extent to which these major , high-minded objectives are compatible with the resources that the Commission intends to deploy .
I do not necessarily mean financial resources .
The implementation of Agenda 2000 in the agricultural sector does not ultimately require more money .
There must also be savings .
But what we need is the analytical resources : these issues require the investment of more intellectual capital .
It is not easy to combine those aims .
There is no obvious way .
There may well be contradictions between the two objectives and there is nothing to show that the Commission has pointed out those contradictions and how it proposes to deal with them .
Perhaps these issues should be approached with greater attention and a greater esprit de finesse .
Madam President , I want to start by reinforcing the caution that has been expressed by many colleagues here in addressing this five-year plan .
In setting very ambitious long-term goals we must not take our eyes away from the present .
That was a point made very forcibly by the leader of my group , Mr Poettering , in his opening address .
The Union must not take on a whole range of new tasks without the basic foundation for a successful European economy being in place .
That foundation is clearly the single market .
How strongly is the single market established at the moment ?
I want to remind Mr Prodi , and his colleagues who are still here , of the findings of the Commission ' s own survey among 3000 European businesses .
Nearly 40 % of businesses in this survey are still reporting additional costs to render products or services compatible with national specifications .
This is the Commission ' s own survey .
These are the classic symptoms of continued obstruction by national governments - bureaucratic red-tape blocking market entry .
The Commission ' s programme shows a disturbing complacency about the completion of the internal market .
Only on the strong foundation of the single market will the agenda of enlargement be successfully achieved .
An enlarged Europe must build on the existing strengths of the Union .
The single market extending across that enlarged Union is going to be a colossal achievement .
That is the entire programme for the next five years on the question of internal security , freedom , citizens ' rights and judicial cooperation .
A paper this short is a farce .
A farce because we know and appreciate the work of Commissioner Vitorino and what we have here on paper is a blatant contradiction to how things actually stand .
A paper such as this is no basis for a scoreboard .
It has been extolled and celebrated as a huge achievement and I am all for it ; we need a basis for a scoreboard .
We here in Parliament want to hold a serious discussion about the future development in this policy area on the basis of a programme .
What we are looking for are minimum standards in asylum procedures so that refugees can be given help quickly , and those who are not fleeing know where they stand .
We want instruments to prevent abuse .
We debate these issues intensively and seriously and we should be entitled to expect likewise from the Commission , even where it is merely submitting a paper .
This is not the case in other areas , as has already been pointed out .
On the other hand , what does this statement tell us about principles ?
It is therefore quite legitimate and even imperative that we ask ourselves , what purpose do the current common standards and rules serve ?
That is why we said that we were in favour of the strategy that the Commission outlined here for the Seattle negotiations and for later ones .
We are certainly in favour of this strategic vision but we need to be brave and ambitious .
We need to be demanding and ensure that social rights , environmental rights and consumer protection are incorporated into the forthcoming negotiations .
Having said this , Madam President , I am prepared , once again , to be a voice crying in the wilderness as a result of the absence of a fishing policy .
It is really surprising that the Commission does not treat the revision of one of its common policies as a strategic objective for the coming years , in view of the reform which must take place in 2002 .
There is no doubt whatsoever that this revision process will be the most important thing to affect the fishing industry for many years .
We have often asked for a basic timetable for this revision and we have received no reply .
Madam President , I should like to add my congratulations to Commissioner Prodi 's programme .
I have one observation , not a criticism , to make regarding Commissioner Prodi 's statement this morning and that is that it was a little weak on the actual content of economic policy .
We must not take anything for granted in terms of how we get the European economy restructured .
After all , what is social justice if it is without full employment ?
Full employment is the best way to generate social justice for our citizens .
This is a key priority for us to focus on .
I should like to welcome one or two initiatives that have already come from the Commission which will help us : in particular Commissioner Liikanen 's commitment to having an innovative knowledge-driven economy .
Yes , e-Europe will be the future for us because it will help us create new prosperity and new jobs .
I welcome the Commission initiatives now and in the past to support our small and medium-sized enterprises and I would like to congratulate our Portuguese Presidency for its initiative on having a charter for micro-businesses .
That is important and something that can be developed through the Lisbon Summit .
I also welcome Commissioner Busquin 's idea to have a common research area for the whole of the European Union .
Again , this is a way that we can help create better opportunities for jobs and for prosperity .
You said in your summary , Commissioner Prodi , that liberalisation , competitiveness , keeping inflation low , innovation , science and technology are central for the future success of the European economy and creating jobs .
I very much agree with you on that , but we can take nothing for granted . There is still more we have to do , and the Lisbon Summit will become part of that .
So with those remarks I would like to congratulate you on the programme and wish it every success .
Madam President , Mr President of the Commission , I should like to focus on two points which are not mentioned in your programme .
To me , this Commission strategy paper for the next five years reads like a scientific paper on the European Union or a declaration of principle .
Unfortunately , it does not give the impression of being a real political strategy on the part of the Commission .
As the spokesperson for cultural and training policy for my group , I would have expected more in the way of agenda from an Italian President of the Commission .
The Commission gives no soul to Europe .
Culture and training simply do not exist in this paper , despite the fact that we need to create a real area of training and culture in Europe .
Just a few main points .
I am talking about the integration of the policies of the culture industry in this area of training and culture ; they create jobs .
Mr President of the Commission , it is the new millennium and you made no mention whatsoever of the audio-visual area of Europe .
Nor was any mention made of information policy and communications catering to the needs of our citizens .
It seems to me that something is missing from this programme .
Truly European citizenship depends on our creating a real , visible area of training and culture .
Declarations of principle are not enough .
We need an agenda which can be translated into political action by the Commission on an ongoing basis in the way in which I have just described .
Madam President , Mr Prodi , how would you take stock of your policy and work programme , what would your benchmark be , if you had to make direct choices ?
You have the fine , charming idea that the outcome and the benchmark for your policy and for your five-year programme will be the result of the elections , or rather the turnout at the next European elections .
Mr Prodi , what can I say ; what is there that is new ?
There is nothing new in your work programme .
You have taken 12 pages for five years and 18 pages for one year ' s work programme .
Does that give me hope for the year 2000 ?
No , it does not !
In your work programme for 2000 you state something quite clever .
You say that environmental considerations must be integrated into all other policy areas .
Have you done so , Mr Prodi ; have you even read your work programme for the year ?
No , you have not done so .
You have not integrated environmental policy into enlargement , despite the fact that it will be one of the fundamental problems of enlargement .
Nor have you integrated it into economic policy , competition or the internal market .
You have not integrated it anywhere .
You have tacked a few components together but you have no overall structure .
You say in your five-year programme that the people of the European Union rightly expect food standards to be higher and better foodstuffs legislation .
Mr Prodi , you do not know what you are talking about .
The foodstuffs legislation in the European Union is the most ambitious in the world .
Where it falls short , what is missing , is transposition in the Member States and monitoring .
It is no good spending time on hobbies when there is a day ' s work to be done .
That is what we expect of you in the next five years .
( ES ) Madam President , Mr President of the Commission , as chairman of this Parliament ' s Committee on Fisheries , Mr Prodi , you are not making things easy for me at all .
I feel duty bound to publicly denounce the fact that fishing is absent from the programme which you have presented to us .
The next five years of the Prodi Commission - as you solemnly announce in the first of your conclusions - will mean great change .
I hope that this change will not mean an even greater marginalisation of fishing , since the silence of your programme , with regard to fishing , is deafening .
Not a single line , nor a single word , refers to fishing or the CFP .
I am not asking for details or specific points , but I believe that a mention was required .
How could you completely ignore a common - I repeat ; common - policy with such an economic , social and regional impact , and which therefore affects the economic and social cohesion of Europe ?
Does the Commission intend to do nothing - at least it has announced nothing - about this reform in 2000 either ?
This House has expressed its opinion on the first issue and it will also do so on the second .
I would therefore ask you , Mr Prodi , to make an explicit reference to this problem in your reply today .
Our parliamentary Group will table an amendment in this respect and we expect a positive message from you .
Mr President of the Commission , this is indeed an historic moment for Parliament , a five-year programme following the crisis of the Commission .
On behalf of the Socialist Group , I would like to focus on the point of internal reform .
We wholeheartedly support the programme as it is now laid down in a consultative document and which is also included in the programme of Vice-President , Mr Kinnock , on behalf of the Commission .
They want to see results .
Democracy , transparency and clarity always lead to results , citizens value results and this is what the Commission is judged on .
This is exactly the point which Mr Swoboda and also other Members made : fear of modernisation , globalisation , and the individual losing his own sense of safety and security .
This can be prevented if a European social model is drawn up and if results are achieved in all these concrete areas .
I would therefore strongly advocate internal reform which delivers fast and concrete results at a social level . This gives the citizen a sense of recognition , here in Europe and elsewhere .
Because this citizen - one in five globally - still has no access to elementary social provisions , such as education and health care .
These are really the people who deserve our solidarity .
Madam President , Mr President of the Commission , I have read and re-read the Commission ' s document setting out the strategic objectives for its term in office .
I am delighted that it is being discussed in Parliament , but I also note the compromises and the omissions in it .
The Commission makes only a passing reference to economic and social cohesion , to solidarity between Member States and to the European Union ' s regional policy .
And this is true even when it addresses the issue of enlargement .
Are reducing the disparities between levels of development and the consequent promotion of real convergence objectives that we have already achieved ?
Certainly not !
At the same time , it was rightly pointed out that Europe must evaluate its role as a joint partner with developing countries , and strengthen its activities designed for fighting poverty .
This document leaves out issues which clearly should have been included .
I think the fact that the Commission does not address the issue of cohesion is extremely serious .
It also forgets that enlargement means that we must get regional policy right . Unless we achieve real convergence , the cohesion of the European Union itself will be at risk .
We should take into consideration the sixth periodic report on the situation of the regions in the European Union , for which the Commission is responsible .
You may draw your own conclusions .
50 is exactly the level of development of my own region , the Azores , one of the regions defined in the Treaties as ultra-peripheral .
I am waiting for the Commission ' s report on the ultra-peripheral regions , which the Council decided should be drawn up by December 1999 .
I shall finish by restating my conviction that without economic and social cohesion , there will be no cohesion at all , only disunity .
You must not allow yourself to be distracted by the sole issue of enlargement , however important this may be .
You must go further , towards reconciling the people with Europe , in particular those people who are falling victim to economic , social and , probably , in the future , technological divisions .
Your action programme and your objectives are reserved , even silent , specifically on the stimulation of public investment which is needed .
This is also the case with the consolidation and financing of the main public and general interest services .
This is an absolute priority if you are to reconcile Europe with the people and ensure that the people choose Europe rather than Jrg Haider .
Madam President , the Commission was correct to make food safety one of its top priorities .
I therefore welcome the fact that the issue of food safety , public health and consumer confidence features prominently in the Commission 's work programme for 2000 .
However , I was disappointed with the nature of the proposal for the establishment of a European food authority in the recent White Paper .
Furthermore , future legislation must address the modus operandi of the relationship between the European food authority and the authorities of national Member States , for example the food safety authority in Ireland .
This body , for example , alongside the recently established cross-border body in Ireland for food safety , is already doing good work .
It would be a tragedy if their efforts were to be undermined by deficiencies in EU legislation .
My fear is that such deficiencies in EU legislation could lead to turf wars between national and EU bodies , who should be working together rather than against one another .
That is something we must guard against .
Madam President , the presentation by President Prodi today has necessarily been a fairly broad brush affair .
We will be looking for the detail year by year , for example in the social action programme to be unveiled this year .
We will also be looking at this from the perspective of social and employment policy , and will be applying a number of tests .
Within the employment strategy we will look for a deepening and broadening of the strategy following the review under the Portuguese presidency and within the framework being proposed by the Portuguese Presidency .
Within the social dimension we will be looking for a deepening of the internal market with a social aspect .
We also need a code of corporate conduct to make sure that companies in fact work in partnership with their workers in the management of change .
That is the successful way to manage change , and I hope the Commission will act to make sure that is put into place .
We need to move that agenda forward with great urgency now .
The aspirations are fine , President Prodi , we want those aspirations to be matched by action .
Madam President , I hope that it is a good omen that there are still a few i 's left for me to dot .
Mr Prodi , you set great store in your reform efforts on introducing a forward-looking employment policy throughout Europe .
However , for the economic sector which I represent , i.e. fisheries , this means change .
We need to break away from planned economy subsidies in favour of a liberal policy which fosters personal responsibility .
We must reduce protective tariffs in order to safeguard effective capacity utilisation in undertakings in the processing industry .
What it comes down to is the competitiveness of the European economy on the world market and the existence of thousands of jobs in the processing industry and offshore fishing .
Plus , this branch of the economy is one of the few sectors in which Europe has fully integrated powers to decide and act , which is why we expect to be given a right of codecision here too .
This has since been unanimously approved .
The fisheries policy is due for review in a few months ' time , i.e. at the beginning of the year 2000 .
So it is somewhat upsetting that there is not so much as a mention of this branch of the economy is this paper .
I hope that this is a misunderstanding .
Please , Mr Prodi , stand by your word and implement your promises .
Madam President , many of the speakers from the Socialist Group have already identified key areas where there are gaps in the Commission ' s statement .
However , we have acknowledged that this is an innovative and very welcome initiative by the Commission .
One area that I want to focus on , in addition to those already identified , is that of cultural diversity in Europe .
The introduction to this statement acknowledges under the quality of life section that it is important .
But there is nothing in the statement which indicates that the Commission intends to take any steps to deal with the issue of cultural diversity .
Those who are currently coming to the fore in Europe based on fear will win the day .
If we do not take steps to deal with that , we will fail ultimately .
Thank you , Mr De Rossa .
Before giving the floor again to the President of the Commission , I must tell you that I have received , pursuant to Rule 37 , seven motions for resolutions to conclude the debate .
Welcome
I would like to inform you that there is a delegation from Kuwait , led by His Excellency , Sheikh Salem Al-Sabah , Vice-Prime Minister and Defence Minister , here in the official gallery .
On behalf of the House , I would like to welcome you to the European Parliament .
I understand that on 26 January the association wrote to the College of Quaestors requesting permission to set up a table outside the Hemicycle today to publicise their initiative .
On the same day , I understand , Mr Balfe gave permission for the assistants to go ahead .
The Parliament services asked to meet with the assistants yesterday to make the necessary physical arrangements .
However , the appointment was cancelled at the last minute .
Parliament has not yet indicated why permission was withdrawn .
Mrs Banotti apparently promised to write a letter explaining why permission was withdrawn but so far no letter has been received .
Can you explain why the approval given to the assistants was withdrawn at the last minute ?
Do you agree that the assistants have a legitimate case which must be heard ?
Will you do everything in your power to ensure that such last-minute cancellations do not happen again ?
Will you do everything in your power to ensure that a statute for assistants is adopted as soon as possible ?
Finally , will you make sure that in the meantime Parliament 's rules are properly implemented and that assistants are paid , as they should be , on the basis of all the work they do for us ?
Without them we would not be able to function .
Mr President , I also rise on a point of order .
Are there any rules or regulations that govern demonstrations within the building of this Parliament , outside the doors of the Hemicycle , to ensure that MEPs are free to come into this Hemicycle to discharge their mandate ?
If there are such rules , who has the responsibility for enforcing them and what are they doing to discharge that responsibility ?
Mr President , first of all let me say that I am in full support of a statute for assistants .
Yesterday when I arrived in Parliament I was handed a document relating to a proposed demonstration by the assistants outside the doors of Parliament .
As all colleagues will know - and many of you have approached me over the last six months - all exhibitions and such like are filtered first of all through the Comart committee of Parliament .
To give a non-contentious example , no commercial exhibitions can be held here in Parliament for obvious reasons .
Following a letter I received yesterday , I immediately informed the assistants that we would propose that they be allowed to hold a meeting or demonstration , probably in the near future and possibly in the next month .
But all exhibitions must be carried out in a way that do not interfere with the orderly running of Parliament .
I signed a letter yesterday afternoon , in the meeting of the Bureau of Parliament , in which the assistants were informed of this .
But I am also told that they were informed verbally of this decision by the Committee of Chairmen of Groups last Thursday , so they were fully aware of the decision .
There is no problem with them telling us the way they feel , there is no problem with a possible meeting during Parliament 's next part-session .
But there was some misunderstanding , for they did receive a letter from somebody else that they felt gave them permission .
But all exhibitions are in fact looked at first by the so-called Comart committee .
As you can see we have many exhibitions around Parliament , whether they be about different countries or whatever .
This is not an attempt to either censor or go against the very real and justifiable principle that we should have a statute for assistants .
Thank you , Mrs Banotti .
I think your intervention may clarify various points that were raised .
Mr President , I wanted to point out an important matter of principle .
We shall now proceed to the vote.1
VOTE
However , we have voted against paragraphs 2 and 6 , because they seem to us to be legally incorrect .
We have also voted in favour of paragraph 13 .
An appropriate statute and the right of movement and settlement for residents of non-EU countries is something which the Spanish People ' s Party has been advocating for some time .
Given the oral amendment , we felt we could vote in favour and that is what we have done .
.
This report which I voted against is less concerned with human rights than with ' communitisation ' or the consolidation of Fortress Europe .
Kosovo Albanians and Serb deserters are being refused refugee status , whereas Pinochet is calmly escaping prosecution .
McCarthy report ( A5-0026 / 2000 )
Secondly , when deciding which areas must be subsidised , we must concentrate efforts on integrated projects .
Disparate actions are not effective .
Thirdly , we have to bear in mind the synergies generated by other Community programmes , as well as the opportunities for sustainable development in the location or region in question .
Finally , we have to put our trust in , and support , the institutions which are closest to the citizens , that is , the local councils and bodies .
Lastly , in today ' s vote on our four amendments , two have been approved and the other two rejected .
Mr President , the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism had an in-depth discussion on the URBAN initiative which produced many ideas .
As the smallest Community initiative in existence , we therefore proposed an increase in its funding through an amendment which was rejected .
The Commission should also pay attention to coherence between the various policies which are in place . It should make URBAN projects coherent with future projects in budget lines entitled ' sustainable urban policy ' .
Mr President , I would like to point out that I voted for this report on sustainable urban development , known as URBAN .
As with all other Community initiatives , this is very positive .
Europe is making its presence felt at a time when we are doing something for all the citizens of Europe and not simply for the development of an individual State , whichever one it may be .
URBAN is designed to find solutions to urban decay , and this is something of great concern to the elderly and therefore of great concern to the Pensioners ' Party .
There can be no worse situation than that of an elderly person living in a city .
I hope that this Community initiative will help serve as an example on how to resolve the problems faced by the elderly in cities .
.
( DA ) The Left ' s five Members of the European Parliament have chosen to support LEADER + , the EQUAL initiative and INTERREG , but not URBAN .
At a forthcoming review of these programmes , it ought to be established that the EU ' s efforts are to be concentrated upon cross-border tasks and adapted to the possible enlargement of the EU .
.
This report contains general points on what is referred to as the urban regeneration strategy for town centres and neighbourhoods affected by the crisis in the capitalist economy and its consequences , i.e. increasing unemployment , exclusion and delinquency .
However , nothing is said about the causes of this crisis and those responsible for it .
At best this report simply corrects certain aspects and effects of the crisis . Yet only scandalously limited resources are available for this work .
With some 80 % of the population of Europe living in an urban area , cities are at the forefront of economic , social and cultural change in Europe .
At the same time , the social and economic problems facing European society are more pronounced in urban areas .
The concentration of economic and social problems in certain urban areas calls for targeted intervention taking full account of the complexity of the problems involved .
This is why the European Parliament successfully called for the URBAN Community Initiative or CIP to be extended during the reform of the Structural Funds .
The success of URBAN during the 1994-1999 programming period is indisputable .
The results are clear in terms of the improvement of the quality of life in the target areas .
This CIP has encouraged the development of best practice models in the economic , social and environmental sectors .
It has also had the distinction of strengthening the role of local authorities , the non-governmental sector and local communities and of supporting new partnership approaches to urban regeneration .
The new initiative will continue to pursue these goals by reinforcing them , while particularly promoting equal opportunities between men and women and integrating socially marginalised and disadvantaged groups .
We can therefore welcome its adoption .
We must , however , admit that in financial terms we cannot proclaim a victory ! The total appropriation allocated is not up to the challenge .
The amount for the 1994-1999 period was EUR 900 million and will be EUR 700 million for the 2000-2006 period . This represents a drop of 30 % !
This reduction in funding has led to a reduction in the number of programmes in the new URBAN initiative .
The chosen threshold of 50 projects seems too low .
It needs to be increased to reflect regional and local factors whilst maintaining financial awards to the Member States .
In view of this concentration on a limited number of projects , the publication and dissemination of the results of the new URBAN Community Initiative will perhaps be particularly important to achieve a multiplier effect .
The McCarthy report on the URBAN Community Initiative gives us an opportunity to reflect on the appropriateness of Community intervention in urban matters .
The situation of certain urban areas is alarming , with the social distress taking the form of unemployment , misery and crime .
Drug dealing in particular fuels insecurity and delinquency .
Faced with these social challenges , the effectiveness of the Structural Funds is still in doubt .
Although we welcome the determination to create a system of exchanges between successful enterprises , the problems specific to each urban area cannot be dealt with in the same way .
The URBAN Community Initiative is helping to achieve the European Union ' s desire to communitise urban policy .
It would be more appropriate for the EU to concentrate its financial efforts on pre-existing European policies .
Mrs McCarthy is therefore suggesting an increase in the funds allocated to URBAN and the promotion of this Community initiative through a costly communication campaign extolling the benefits of a federal Europe .
We should remember that the effectiveness of expenditure is not measured by the volume of funding allocated to the project .
In fact , the beneficiaries of too many and too high subsidies will eventually just take these for granted .
The aim must not be to help the people but to make them take responsibility .
Finally , the report specifically highlights actions in favour of ethnic or sociological minorities .
We can only condemn a policy on minorities which is inevitably dangerous for social cohesion .
On the other hand , it manipulates the principle of positive discrimination . This is a politically correct fancy which can be just as harmful , as shown by the US precedent .
For all these reasons , the French delegation of the UEN Group could not approve the McCarthy report .
Decourrire report ( A5-0028 / 2000 )
Mr President , the INTERREG programme is particularly close to our hearts .
Like many of my colleagues , I am pleased that the European Parliament was able to safeguard this initiative .
These projects must therefore be properly taken into account and must integrate sustainable development .
Why am I stressing this point ?
The answer is quite simply because the projects currently being submitted are still too often damaging to the environment due to the way they are submitted .
For example , to accept new roads is to accept new pollution within the European Union . This goes totally against the policies which we are proposing to fight greenhouse gas emissions , for example .
I am particularly thinking in this respect of certain infrastructures which are under construction .
We know that some Member States are still wavering , for example , between rail and road for routes through vulnerable areas such as the Pyrenees , as in the Aspe valley .
However , I am also thinking of my own region where my government is still debating whether to route the railway or to build a second motorway , the A32 .
In this respect too , I would ask the Commission to be particularly attentive about ensuring that there is real cohesion between the various policies , specifically in the INTERREG programmes which are being submitted .
I voted for it , not just because I was born in a coastal town , Genoa , but above all because the frontiers of regions bordered by the sea are frontiers too .
These frontiers stretch as far as African states and the Middle East : we must take greater account of the fact that it is also important to develop coastal regions in every part of Europe .
As an MEP from a border region , I welcome this third INTERREG initiative with great interest .
We can never talk enough about the difficulties experienced in the past by maritime and landlocked border regions which have been cut off economically , socially and culturally .
Due to the existence of these borders , they have become peripheral areas within the countries to which they belong . This has too often led the national authorities to neglect these regions in national policy .
This is why the INTERREG Community Initiative was launched in 1990 .
This programme was designed to encourage cross-border , transnational and interregional cooperation and to promote balanced development of the Community territory in order to enhance economic and social cohesion in the Union .
INTERREG serves principally to fund Community schemes to develop SMEs , education and training , cultural exchanges , action to combat health problems , the protection and improvement of the environment , energy , transport and telecommunications networks .
I must stress that interregional cooperation significantly encourages the involvement of local and regional authorities in the process of European integration .
In cross-border cooperation , greater emphasis must be placed on improving the conditions for the economic activity of the small and medium-sized undertakings which are the job creators .
In the same respect , given that structural unemployment is responsible for 50 % of all unemployment , the INTERREG funds made available must be sufficient to supplement national measures promoting employment .
Obstacles too often caused by double taxation and social protection are preventing , braking or hindering cross-border mobility .
INTERREG resources must also contribute to the development of a European research area .
Finally , and in particular , expectations in the regions about this initiative are high given that small towns not eligible for Objective 2 funding are hoping to obtain compensation through INTERREG !
The challenges are therefore immense . The integration of the border regions will be an essential element in the development of a future European regional development policy !
I hope everyone , like Mr Decourrire , whom I congratulate , will realise this !
- ( FR ) The INTERREG Community Initiative is just one element of an ill-fated European regional policy .
Between 1994 and 1999 , our regions annually received an average of FF 15.4 billion but will receive only FF 14.7 billion between 2000 and 2006 .
My region of Nord-Pas-de-Calais will be particularly affected with French Hainaut losing the aid paid to Objective 1 regions .
This loss is unjustified in a region whose main activities have been ruined by free-trade Europe .
The European regional policy also reinforces the centralism of Brussels with which the regional authorities are invited to negotiate directly on the use of the Structural Funds .
This is a Europe of regions in which the regions , which are weaker than the nation states , will easily submit to Brussels .
The INTERREG initiative , launched in 1990 to prepare the border regions for a Europe without borders and therefore without nations , sits comfortably within this philosophy .
However , these isolated elements which make sense and for which we voted , in no way remedy the Eurofederalist philosophy which characterises the Community initiatives , particularly INTERREG .
This is why the National Front voted against the report .
The European Parliament has delivered an opinion on the Commission guidelines for the INTERREG Community Initiative concerning cross-border , transnational and interregional cooperation .
I want to defend an amendment tabled by my group on the maritime aspect of this Community initiative .
This does not involve the concerns about the future of the Atlantic Arc but rather the need to integrate the principle of maritime borders into strand A on cross-border cooperation .
In the Commission guidelines , few maritime areas are eligible for INTERREG IIIA .
The amendments to the Decourrire report aim to make INTERREG more maritime-oriented .
This is an important development which must be supported as it is the future of the EU which is at stake .
I am aware of the Commission ' s reluctance on this subject as it announced during the symposium on the presentation of INTERREG III last November .
However , I must point out that preventing the recognition of maritime borders amounts to denying the existence of an area which has great potential for projects and innovation .
The European Commission should therefore be able to participate in the construction of port and airport infrastructure to provide links between regions .
This policy would have important economic consequences for the fishing industry in Brittany in that catches could be unloaded at Irish advance bases in order to then be transported to the Breton agri-foodstuffs industry .
The integration of the maritime border into strand A would finally allow the western periphery to be recognised as a unique and important economic area which is confronted by the ' continentalisation ' of the European Union .
This would show respect for these peripheral areas which are rather concerned about enlargement to the east .
The maritime world has great potential .
We therefore must not leave it out of innovative and pilot Community programmes which will allow the new geographical and economic map of Europe to be defined .
.
( DA ) The European project began as a partnership between States .
This partnership has ensured peace and stability in our part of Europe for over 50 years .
The EU should be prepared to meet that competition .
We can only do that by intensifying co-operation within the Community .
It should not be about greater integration of the EU countries in the form of a federation but about using our economic potential across national borders .
It is about co-operating on joint projects and about unifying forces on all sides .
I therefore welcome the continuation of the programme .
.
We have no intention of giving Brussels the job of regulating regional planning in the Member States , as suggested in recital of the report .
We only ask one thing of the Commission : that it confine itself to ensuring that the implementation of joint policies does not upset the balance of regional planning in our territories .
We are therefore unable to approve the development of strand IIIC of the Community initiative encouraging interregional cooperation under the responsibility of the Commission and sidelining the Member States .
It is up to Washington , not us , to assume responsibility for a conflict which was triggered merely to serve its interests .
The French delegation in our group is therefore unable to support the Decourrire report and will choose to abstain during the final vote .
Procacci report ( A5-0025 / 2000 )
I therefore believe that it is very important for everyone to back this European Union plan and for it to be further developed .
- ( PT ) Although this Community initiative , LEADER + , follows on from previous initiatives , it has some unique features .
One of these of course is the reduction by around one half in appropriations made available even though they will cover a longer period .
Nevertheless , new objectives have been included , specifically the financing of the Nature Network 2000 , for which all rural regions will be eligible .
In spite of the fact that this Community initiative is aimed at rural development , it does not address the issues of agriculture and agricultural production in a consistent way , and this is unacceptable .
Without agriculture , the rural world will disappear .
This means that any strategy for rural development must be based on agriculture ' s internal potential while at the same time developing as many other activities as possible in order to prevent the desertification of the rural world .
Our position on LEADER is a product of our more general assessment of the EU ' s overall agricultural policy .
This is proved by the fact that in the areas where those initiatives were implemented , farming incomes and employment decreased rapidly , which resulted in their depopulation .
We think LEADER + will be even more ineffectual than LEADER 1 and LEADER 2 , for the following reasons .
In no case , however , are they programmes for the integrated development of the selected areas and they do not create permanent jobs in the countryside because most of the activities there are not productive in nature .
LEADER + will last a year longer than LEADER 2 .
LEADER + can cover all the regions of the EU , while LEADER 2 covered only the Objective 1 regions and some Objective 5b and 6 regions .
We disagree with many of the report ' s views .
Once more , we point to the negative changes of the CAP ( 1992 - Agenda 2000 ) .
For our part , we will tell the farmers about the expediency of these programmes .
Unless this CAP is overthrown , no programme can ensure the survival of small and medium-scale farmers and the social and economic regeneration of the countryside .
All the Members in the Union for a Europe of Nations Group voted in favour of almost the whole of the Procacci report on the LEADER + Community Initiative .
However , we amended the draft report adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to clarify certain points which will make this Community initiative more effective .
In particular we felt it was necessary to simplify the administrative and financial procedures which proved to be too cumbersome and slow in the LEADER II initiative .
It was also essential to ensure that better account is taken of the development priorities of local operators and that the benefit of LEADER + funds is not limited solely to agricultural regions with a low population density .
The rapporteur ' s phrasing was therefore too limiting .
In the territory of Member States of the European Union , applicant countries or Member States of EFTA , there may be interrelations between the various Community initiatives .
The real priority for the European continent is to establish an operational level within a European framework and not a global framework as proposed by the rapporteur .
The creation of organisations similar to the LAGs may be usefully encouraged by the European Union , provided that the corresponding costs are borne by the various partners .
In essence , we are , of course , in favour of this LEADER + Community Initiative .
The budget allocated to LEADER + for a period of seven years is half that allocated to LEADER II for a period of six years .
This is unacceptable given the importance of rural development and the consequences for farmers of the fall in prices and aid specified in the reform of the CAP following the Berlin agreements .
( The sitting was suspended at 1.40 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m. )
Additives in feedingstuffs
Mr President , Commissioner Byrne , under Directive 70 / 524 , high-technology additives are treated differently , depending on the date of authorisation .
The Commission has proposed harmonising the authorisation procedure so that substances licensed before 1988 are put on an equal footing with substances authorised now .
As far as we in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development are concerned , so far so good .
However , the directive also encompasses the authorisation of antibiotics , drugs , growth-promoters and genetically-modified organisms .
We asked the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market , which pointed out that , as far as approximating laws is concerned , Article 37 is adequate in this case .
Mr Byrne , we fail to understand why the Commission is not approximating the text on genetically-modified organisms as part of its harmonisation work .
We have now tabled a proposed amendment on precisely this compromise with the Commission on the text .
Moreover , this text has also been adopted in the forest directive on the use of forest reproductive material and we feel that this text urgently needs to be adopted in this directive as well .
The Commission pointed out in committee that it plans to present a novel feed directive in the future .
However , that should not prevent us from harmonising the text in order to ensure that there is no legal uncertainty between the various directives .
We are therefore assuming that you will accept our proposed amendment with regard to genetically-modified organisms .
We therefore assume , Commissioner Byrne , that you too will accept our proposed amendment of the legal base .
In other words , we do not need to re-negotiate the text ; we merely need to adopt this text in the directive .
I can hardly wait , Commissioner Byrne , to hear what you have to say to our proposals .
Mr President , Commissioner , does regulating additives in feedingstuffs come under competition or consumer policy ?
As far the Commission and the Legal Affairs Committee are concerned , it comes under competition .
Of course we have to take account of the competitiveness of the feedingstuffs industry by harmonising provisions for substances authorised before and after 1988 .
We want to prevent the prices of feedingstuffs from rising and Mr Doyle ' s proposed Amendments Nos 4 and 5 therefore deserve our support .
However , as Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf has said in his report , this is first and foremost a consumer policy matter .
Food safety must take absolute priority over feedingstuffs in all our discussions .
When we talk of transparency in the food chain , that applies from the hayfork to the table fork and consumer protection therefore logically starts with feedingstuffs .
The antibiotics , growth promoters and genetically-modified organisms mixed in with feedingstuffs end up in the human food chain .
The dioxin scandal brought home to us that we have to get out of this mess once and for all and regulating additives in feedingstuffs is a step in the right direction .
According to Article 152 of the EC Treaty , we are obliged to obviate sources of danger to human health , whereby the accent is clearly on sources .
Consequently , we must cut off the supply of the original source of danger , i.e. harmful additives in feedingstuffs .
Otherwise , in my view , we are beavering away at the symptoms , but not the causes .
People are especially wary of GMOs .
We must confront increasing public awareness of GMOs by regulating their use in feedingstuffs accordingly .
First , if an additive consists of or contains genetically-modified organisms , then it should only be authorised if it poses no risk to human health or the environment .
Secondly , it makes sense to issue provisions for genetically-modified feedingstuff additives similar to the regulations in seed marketing legislation , as the rapporteur has said .
And thirdly , if we are to have a transparent consumer policy , we need to label genetically-modified feedingstuffs .
A clear declaration on feedingstuffs will allow double freedom of choice , both for the party using the feedingstuff and the subsequent consumer .
Responsible citizens should , in my view , have a choice .
We all talk of scandalised citizens who have lost confidence in food safety .
By regulating additives in feedingstuffs consistently , we can help significantly to restore confidence .
I too , therefore , can hardly wait to hear what you have to say to our proposed amendments .
Consequently , we too shall also vote to reserve our right to refer the proposal back to committee if need be .
Mr President , this proposal to amend the 1970 directive on additives in feedingstuffs is the first in a whole series of proposals on the subject of feedingstuffs .
In other words , we shall be discussing other proposals here in Parliament over the next few months .
That this subject is of paramount importance is borne out by the huge public attention which the dioxin , antibiotic , sludge and other scandals have attracted .
In other words , this is an important facet of public health protection , which is why we believe that Article 152 should be taken as the legal base , not Article 37 , as proposed by the Commission .
The amendment which the Commission has proposed , namely equal treatment for additives authorised before or after 31 December 1987 , is uncontested and has our full support .
However , the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has voted unanimously on some important amendments to the Commission proposal .
The regulation proposed by the Commission conceals the danger of creating a marketing monopoly for certain additives .
Only companies which obtained the original authorisation will have the right to apply and companies which obtained authorisation at a later date will be excluded .
This would then apply until the re-assessment procedure has been completed .
This already gives us a basis for the authorisation of GMOs .
The labelling of genetically-modified additives is particularly important in this respect .
Finally , our group should like once again to thank the rapporteur , who has gone to a great deal of trouble .
I think that we can all hardly wait to hear Mr Byrne ' s reply .
Mr President , the report deals mainly with formalities , in other words , the manner in which additives will be authorised .
It is less concerned with the types of additives and how they work .
We cannot carry on as we have done up until now , that is to say dealing with each detail on its own , often only after the harm has already been done .
The rapporteur places the emphasis on the testing and labelling of GMOs in feed additives .
However , I should like once again to raise the issue of antibiotics .
We now know that resistance to antibiotics poses a very serious threat to people 's health , particularly in the case of small children .
A number of Member States are already able to show conclusively that improper practices in connection with the keeping of livestock are totally unnecessary .
Several countries phased out antibiotics in animal feedingstuffs a long time ago and others are in the process of successfully doing the same .
We talk a great deal about the precautionary principle but , in the case of antibiotics , it has long since been forgotten .
However , there is another environmental principle at stake , namely the exchange principle .
I should like to say a few words about coccidiostats .
They are a zootechnical product which is not totally necessary . There is a substitute , which is used to vaccinate chickens .
Although it is a little more expensive , it does not harm the environment .
Coccidiostats now accompany the manure that is spread on the fields . In that way , they end up in our water supplies which , as we all know , are our most vital resource .
We must therefore closely examine all the elements of the chain involved in the manufacture of feedingstuffs for production animals .
Incidentally , it is ironic that the problem is much less serious for the feedingstuffs of our dogs , cats and other domestic animals .
Is it because of cut-throat and globalised competition that industrialists have allowed this sector to become a way of recycling all the waste from the agri-foodstuffs industry ?
Such a serious issue cannot be limited to a technical debate , even though it is the directive itself which limits the authorisation of antibiotics and other growth promoters .
The precautions which we are preparing to take in respect of feedingstuffs must also be applied to the food for the very farm animals which reach our plates .
As forcefully underlined by this report , labelling is an absolute necessity so that each farmer on his holding is aware of all the ingredients in the feed which he is giving his livestock .
He must also know whether his bag of protein granules includes GMOs as these components could represent a risk to public health .
In any case , the precautionary principle requires these products to be clearly traceable at all stages of their marketing .
However , before labelling we need clear rules .
Straight questions must be asked about the real end-use of animal meal , for example .
Although we are looking at all the problems caused by these products in ethical and health terms , it is their use which must be questioned today .
In this respect , the chapter of the White Paper on food safety which deals with feedingstuffs must serve as a working basis for going beyond mere commercial questions .
The Commission has on many occasions used the farm-to-table example which our colleague in the PPE Group has just underlined .
This is a good idea but it must be made to be meaningful and , to do this , the problems linked to animals and those linked to consumer health must be dealt with at the same time .
Also , Amendments Nos 4 and 5 to the new Article 2a must be approved as these will ensure that genetically modified additives are clearly identified as such , thus allowing users to make fully informed decisions .
This directive on additives in feedingstuffs cannot achieve this on its own .
Other directives will follow and I believe that the Committee on Agriculture is well placed to deal with them .
Up the point at which meat , milk , bread and other products are sold over the shop counter , feedingstuffs and additives are structured , mixed , blended , cut and transported several times .
The fight by feedingstuff manufacturers to gain maximum market shares causes a lot of problems , just as it does in the foodstuffs industry .
The negative consequences are well known , the positive ones less so .
I am firmly convinced that the most sensible way of protecting the health of European citizens in the ecological chain is through the production of feedingstuffs in the region for the region .
However , more work is needed on this .
Mr President , may I commence by congratulating the rapporteur , Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf , on his report . It reflects the views and concerns of all EU citizens in the area of food safety and quality .
The events of the past couple of years have certainly created an awareness and concern about the real threat to food safety and public health .
But even in this crucial area of administration , Parliament reflects its commitment to subsidiarity by encouraging Member States to take on and to face up to their responsibility .
In Agenda 2000 , we have in my view prioritised policies that are of direct concern to citizens : food safety , water quality , environmental protection and rural development .
If we pursue this agenda with commitment and diligence , the early years of the new millennium will be a milestone in the implementation of policies that are people-focused and very much reflect community needs .
I welcome in particular the proposed new and strict authorisation procedures for additives in animal feeds .
Those found in breach of them must be dealt with severely .
I compliment the new Commissioner responsible for food safety , Mr Byrne .
He has an onerous undertaking but he has responded quickly and effectively to the requirements of this House , as well as to the concern of consumers .
I am particularly pleased that my own country , Ireland , is to the forefront in the implementation of new food regulations based on the principle of traceability .
This will make the island of Ireland the centre of excellence in the future for food production .
Mr President , Commissioner , I too congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work . I am particularly pleased about the unanimity shown on this issue within the group .
A coherent legal framework must be re-established .
As of October 1999 the Commission proposed introducing a legal basis into Directive 70 / 524 / EEC for the replacement of the authorisations .
However , we must ensure that competition distortions are not created , as highlighted by Mr Kindermann and Mrs Auroi .
Genetically modified additives must also be clearly identified in feedingstuffs in order to allow the end-consumer to choose food without GMO components or based on GMO components and to guarantee this .
The consumer must remain free to make a fully informed decision .
This proposal has no financial consequences for the Community budget .
There must therefore be total transparency for producers and consumers in the area of food safety .
I am sure that the Commission can accept the report which , as you know , was approved unanimously in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development .
Mr President , we have said in this House time and again since the BSE crisis that feedingstuffs are one of the first and most important factors in safe food production and in consumer health and protection .
We therefore welcome the Commission ' s proposal on additives in feedingstuffs .
Nevertheless , I should like to say a few words on the report and express a view on a number of points .
First , perhaps , I should say something on the question of the legal base .
Therefore , and I must address this comment to you Mr Byrne , I reject your choice of legal basis .
If it is merely a hand-me-down legal basis taken over from previous directives , then it is a mistake to keep it .
My group , as Mr Kindermann has already said , will therefore vote tomorrow to change the legal base and I hope that other groups in this House will do likewise .
Mr Byrne , I ask you to accept and agree to the change of legal basis for the sake of transparency and good cooperation .
If we do not change it and we follow the Legal Affairs Committee , we shall be opening the floodgates to manipulation .
The Commission would be able to determine the choice of legal basis by excluding any reference to health policy and we would suddenly find ourselves up against an Article 37 .
Allow me to comment briefly on two other points . First , genetically modified micro-organisms in feedingstuffs .
We cannot just refer to vertical legislation and say that at some point we will need another law .
The rapporteur has done just that and that is a good sign .
It is equally important to have strict hygiene requirements for the manufacture of additives and for proper controls to be carried out in the Member States .
There are serious shortcomings in both areas and we have a great deal of work to do yet .
Mr President , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report .
This is an issue that we will no doubt be reconsidering on a number of occasions in the future .
What has happened in recent years has brought to our attention the tremendous problems facing not only to the producers of food but also the consumers .
We must strike a balance between them .
We must resolve this issue , because it is important that consumers should regain confidence in the food they eat .
One way to achieve this is to have total transparency as far as food labelling is concerned .
GMOs are the new challenge facing us .
This is something that people are very worried about and quite rightly so : I myself share these concerns .
But I think we should not allow our concerns about GMOs to overshadow our concerns about growth promoters used in animal feed or antibiotics used in compound feed .
Indeed , we should not allow GMOs to obscure the fact that meat and bonemeal are still included in animal feeds in many countries in Europe .
One factor behind these developments that has been referred to in this debate is competition - competition between Member States on the cost of the production of food .
These are all areas in which we have to ensure a level playing field : food must be of the same standard in all Member States .
We have had the dioxin scare , BSE and many other problems .
The main problem is a financial one , namely who bears the cost ?
The problem is that the cost is not shared equally between the consumer and the producer : the producer has been forced to bear all the cost .
We need an equitable distribution of the extra cost that has been incurred .
We must also ensure that the food that is imported into the European Union meets the standards within the European Union .
If we do not maintain those standards for imported food then we are going to encounter greater difficulties in the future .
.
I should first like to thank the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and its rapporteur , the committee chairman , Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf , for examining the Commission 's proposal .
The Commission proposal is , as some of you have said , rather technical .
Nonetheless it has a relatively simple objective : to harmonise procedures governing the authorisation of feed additives .
At present there is a difference in treatment between authorisations , depending on whether applications were submitted before or after 1 January 1988 .
The purpose of the Commission 's proposal is to harmonise procedures to ensure that no such difference exists .
The scope of the proposed amendment is therefore very limited .
Five amendments have been presented by Parliament .
I shall deal with each of the individual amendments separately .
The first amendment proposes to change the legal base of the proposal by replacing Article 37 with Article 152 .
I would simply point out that the Commission proposal makes no reference to health or consumer protection .
The proposed amendment is technical and cannot be interpreted as having as its primary objective the protection of public health .
I note that Parliament 's Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market also accepts that Article 37 is the appropriate legal base .
I remind Parliament that in Article 152 the primary objective is the protection of health .
I commend to you the arguments set out in the letter from the Legal Affairs Committee which sets out the position , in my view , with precision , clarity and commendable brevity .
Amendments Nos 2 and 3 go much further than the Commission proposal since they aim to introduce additional provisions on genetically modified additives .
I am the first to accept that GMOs are a very important issue .
I also accept and acknowledge that a number of initiatives to update EU legislation in the field of GMOs are necessary .
However , this technical amendment is not the correct instrument to introduce such initiatives .
The Commission is of the view that it is premature to amend the rules currently laid down by Directive 70 / 524 on genetically modified additives at this stage .
Instead it is appropriate to await developments in relation to the common position on the amendment to Directive 90 / 220 , which is currently in second reading in Parliament .
The Commission envisages going much further than is currently proposed by Parliament in its amendments .
I can also assure Parliament that all observations made here today will be fully taken into account .
Amendments Nos 4 and 5 are also unacceptable because they give undue preference to copy products by granting them authorisation to be placed into circulation even before an application for authorisation has been submitted .
The Commission insists on first evaluating such applications as to their safety and efficacy before giving authorisations .
I can only ask you again to bear in mind the technical nature of the Commission proposal and to wait for the substantive proposal for a new directive on additives in feedingstuffs to address wider issues .
I should just like to deal with some of the specific issues that were raised during the debate .
This is a directive that deals more specifically with raw materials rather than with additives .
The text taken by Parliament is from the Directive which was adopted in 1998 .
But the vertical legislation in Directive 90 / 220 on how to carry out the environmental risk assessment of GMOs has changed since then and is still changing .
It is before Parliament for second reading .
It is my belief that we should await the final outcome of Directive 90 / 220 and in particular , Article 11 .
Reference was also made to the question of whether this proposal could give rise to the risk of the establishment of monopolies .
Mr Kindermann and Mrs Auroi made reference to this .
There are just a few points I should like to make on that issue .
First of all , this matter has been in the pipeline since 1993 , so it has not really been sprung on any other commodity producers .
Indeed any such applicants can still apply in respect of their particular product .
I should also stress that the Commission has never approved any application for an authorisation for GMOs to be included in additives .
Mrs Roth-Behrendt made reference to the question of the appropriate legal base , whether it should be Article 37 or Article 152 .
The jurisprudence of the Court appears to be quite clear in relation to this .
A number of you made reference - Mr Nicholson in particular - to the issue surrounding labelling .
Directive 70 / 524 foresees the issue of labelling in the genetic modification of additives .
It is already included now : " indication of the particular characteristics due to the manufacturing products " .
So this issue will be addressed .
That formula enabled us to oblige applicants to put on the label the fact that genetic modification techniques have been used in the product , the subject matter of the application .
Mr President , allow me to ask the Commissioner one more question .
First allow me to point out , Commissioner Byrne , that the European Parliament has no right of legislative initiative .
But we do reserve the right , when you propose to amend a directive or a regulation , to look at the whole regulation and not just the part which you have singled out .
Nonetheless , we have confined ourselves in our proposed amendments to bringing the text into line with that of other directives and we have disregarded the question of content .
For example , you did not go into antibiotics .
We are therefore talking about harmonising the legal provisions in the individual directives .
My question , Commissioner Byrne is this : the UN conference in Montreal decided that genetically-modified organisms must be labelled for international trade .
Do you really believe that , if we could , Parliament would permit labelling to be left off feedingstuff additives within the European Union ?
Commissioner Byrne , it appears that you want to engage in a test of strength with Parliament .
We negotiated the seed marketing legislation for two years .
I look forward to the next round .
I would stress that no GMOs have been approved under this directive ; it applies only to additives .
I would also say in relation to the questions surrounding labelling that this is a complex issue . It is being addressed and will be addressed in a comprehensive way , particularly in Directive 90 / 220 .
This issue is before Parliament at the moment and there will be other directives dealing it , which will also come under the legal base of Article 152 which gives Parliament full competence in the areas of codecision .
I would assure Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf that it is by no means my intention or wish to have any clash or test of strength with Parliament on this issue .
It is my intention , as it has always been , to work in cooperation with Parliament , to ensure that the results we achieve are the very best results .
It is best to wait for that debate which , I understand , will take place fairly soon .
All of these matters will be addressed in that legislation .
Thank you , Commissioner .
Parliament has taken due note of your comments .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Scrapie
No new knowledge was needed , because the theory from the beginning was that BSE and scrapie must be related and this theory has increasingly taken hold .
From this point of view we are slightly behind the times .
I am therefore in complete agreement with the Commission ' s proposal on scrapie .
I should , however , like to add that it only makes sense if we ensure that the new TSE regulation allows a reasonable symbiosis between consumer protection and practicable suggestions .
We therefore need to take consistent account of six or seven points in the coming debate on the TSE proposal , and that of course includes scrapie .
We insist on this .
I should also like to address two other points . We expressly welcome the regional classification of the status of Member States as regards outbreaks of scrapie or TSEs .
Here again the Commission is increasing its response to the work carried out by and the demands made by Parliament .
Finally , in discussing the question of the future application of tests , we should of course bear in mind that we have still not reached the point where tests are generally applicable .
Mr President , over the years , the following situation has arisen : one subject has developed into a subject of many facets .
Many of us here in this House have spent years , whether we intended to or not , dealing solely with the consequences of the BSE scandal right down to the last detail .
And it is still on the agenda today .
It is therefore hardly surprising that I and Mr Bge are talking about it and that Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf has just mentioned it in his report .
The cast is always the same .
Although the cause was unfortunate , it was certainly not the worst experience of this Parliament .
My task as draftsman of the opinion of the Environment Committee is a very simple one .
I agree with the rapporteur and am able to say that the Environment Committee has asked the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to agree to the Commission proposal .
That saves a great deal of time which I would like to use for other things and which I shall use now somewhat in anticipation , as Mr Bge has just done .
I have yet to submit my report on TSEs to the House .
At first we were somewhat irresolute and we regret that now .
But I have come to the conclusion that it was in fact quite clever timing .
This debate does in fact give us an excellent opportunity , Mr Byrne , to give the Commission a few things to think about .
It will become more difficult once we see the TSE proposal , Mr Byrne .
When we have the chance to ask direct questions , the questions which Mr Bge referred to will be asked .
Questions will be asked - questions which I shall have to put to you and the Commission representatives in committee - on how things stand with the BSE status of the Member States and other third countries .
How will BSE status in fact be defined then ?
Do you envisage circumstances under which the BSE status will depend on the willingness to apply a BSE test ?
And then there is my standing question to you Mr Byrne , a question you certainly already know and which will not surprise you . What about the BSE test ?
When will you make it compulsory ?
Perhaps you will do so before Parliament debates the TSE report .
Not that I want to put it off , but it would be a gesture , as it were , if you could say : here is the proposed legislation on the BSE test .
I know that I am a thorn in your side on this , but sometimes that is my job .
Cosmetic , medical and other products cannot be excluded on the grounds that they cause no harm or are not dangerous .
That is , without doubt , too short , too sweet and too little .
Finally , just one more brief comment , Mr Byrne .
We have a new Commission .
Whether or not we will agree with the work carried out by this Commission and the President of the Commission , only time will tell .
They belong in the legislative text .
But you must understand that we cannot let you get away with this .
In other words , whenever I get the chance , I shall take everything out of the annexes and cram it into the legislative text .
And you would be well advised to do likewise from the outset .
Over recent years , these basic principles have often been neglected in animal husbandry and in epidemiological matters because of shoddy practice or greed .
The European Parliament has already taken a clear stand on BSE and I think that we should do likewise on all epidemics in animals .
We should not allow food safety to be compromised because , in the final analysis , it is our health which is at stake .
The Commission ' s proposal encompasses both the transportation and the placing on the market of sheep and goats and a Community regulation to fight scrapie .
This is even more important given that there is no clear proof that BSE and scrapie are unrelated .
Animals are bought throughout Europe and transported over the entire continent .
The spread of an epidemic as the result of bringing in one sick animal can have huge consequences for farmers .
And I should point out that , for the first time in history , a case of scrapie was detected in Austria about four weeks ago .
Scrapie is a particularly insidious disease because the pathogen can remain active in dust for years and is then ingested in food .
The disease is always fatal .
As there is no vaccination , farmers can only protect themselves by not buying animals from countries in which there are cases of scrapie .
Even if scrapie cannot be passed on to human beings , the connection with BSE has still not been clarified , as I have already said .
As a farmer myself , I am most concerned that consumer health should not be put at risk .
I am in favour of preventive measures , starting with feeding which is suitable for the species , rather than measures to combat an epidemic once it has broken out .
I therefore welcome the Commission ' s initiative to create a new legal base for combating scrapie .
Mr President , Commissioner , Mr Bge ' s report on measures to prevent TSE diseases is based on the proposals of the European Parliament ' s temporary BSE Committee .
I would have liked my speech to be part of a discussion that would have also treated the second part of the Commission ' s proposal .
I do not think it appropriate to have to conduct in part the same discussion when Mrs Roth-Behrendt ' s report from the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy is featured in the plenary session .
In the previous speech Mrs Schierhuber said that scrapies is an insidious disease .
It is indeed .
I wish to stress how important it is for us to remain free of disease .
The possibility , if necessary , of having additional inspections of animals in these areas is not a question of artificial protectionism or the restriction of freedom of movement , as there really is justification for it .
The inspections must be seen as being fair and cost-effective action to promote the wellbeing of animals and prevent increased expenditure for the EU .
Mr President , I too would like to offer my congratulations to the rapporteur .
There is no doubt that Mr Bge and the rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment are now tremendous experts in this field .
It is very good that they are continuing to monitor this issue on behalf of Parliament because it is extremely important .
Regardless of the many other concerns we may have , BSE has given us a terrible legacy that has to be dealt with and resolved .
It is quite clear that the incidence of scrapie in sheep has been a contributing factor to the overall problem .
I welcome the legal base being set and the comprehensive way the new rules will , I hope , address this situation .
We must ensure that nothing can enter the food chain or the animal compound feed to allow what we have experienced in the past to happen again in the future .
No-one would want to see what happened to farmers with BSE happen ever again .
We have to bring in the most stringent rules and we have to make them work .
It is extremely important both for the producer and the consumer that we restore confidence and the only way we can do it is by rigorously tackling the problem and resolving it .
BSE has certainly not gone away .
You can see it in different countries .
I do not want to point the finger at any particular country , but many countries are now facing similar problems to those we have had in the United Kingdom .
It will be there for some time to come .
We have to ensure that the whole system of traceability , of following the animal from birth until slaughter and right through the whole food chain , is part of that confidence-building mechanism .
If we are not able to achieve that then we will have tremendous trouble in the future .
It was never the responsibility of the farmer , it was the food compounders who caused this problem and we have to ensure that it never happens again .
Mr President , I am pleased to have been given this opportunity to discuss a subject where there is good cooperation between Parliament and the Commission , namely combating TSEs .
I should also like to thank Mr Bge for his work on this issue .
Considerable progress has been made on our proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation under Article 152 of the Treaty on the prevention and control of TSEs .
This proposal addresses all TSE risk in all animals at all stages of the production chain .
I am here today to listen to your opinions on the first step in this process of establishing a truly comprehensive Community system for the control of these diseases .
I have been informed that you welcome this initiative , as appears from your contributions this afternoon , to formulate a single text .
I am looking forward to discussing any further improvements you might wish to suggest under the framework proposal for the legislation , especially after the reference made by Mrs Roth-Behrendt to her own report and opinion on this issue .
I look forward to receipt of that document , which will be taken into account in all further considerations in relation to this issue .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Community policy in the field of water
- ( FR ) Mr President , Commissioners , ladies and gentlemen , water will be one of the main environmental and world issues of the twenty-first century .
Climate change , global resources , river quality and groundwater aquifer quality are major challenges which threaten our common future .
To support this statement , I would point to an excellent report drafted by our colleague , Mrio Soares , in the international bodies on the state of the seas and oceans .
When talking about climate change , we have rightly referred to the greenhouse effect and the state of the atmosphere .
Yet we also know that the deterioration of the oceans will significantly destabilise whole areas of our planet .
Furthermore , Europe has signed international conventions , in particular the OSPAR Convention in which it made certain commitments .
The European Union ' s water policy is not starting from zero .
Many directives have already been adopted . Furthermore , the Commission wants to make these directives more understandable and more compatible with each other and to give them clearer objectives .
The preparation of this framework directive is therefore prompted by a desire for rationalisation .
However , at first reading this House insisted that the current directive should not only be compatible with the commitments made , like OSPAR , but should allow us to reverse the course of affairs .
In many cases the situation has deteriorated and we therefore cannot settle for just rationalisation of the texts .
I am stressing this point because , when disasters are being reported daily in the news , we cannot just keep on saying for the umpteenth time that Europe did not act when it should have done .
Then , in our haste , we act as if we will solve the problems which we refused to tackle properly at the appropriate time .
It is also clear that if we do nothing , our agriculture will continue to develop in a very unbalanced manner .
Even now , the rivers in Brittany are eutrophying and this is damaging tourism .
To conclude , the issues are clear at this second reading .
Do we or do we not want standards compatible with OSPAR , in other words to get dangerous substances down to zero ?
Do we want to shorten the deadlines proposed by the Council for this directive ?
Do we want to have a pricing policy which enables all public and private participants to clean up and save water ?
Do we seriously want to respond to the hopes of our peoples ?
The majority of the amendments approved by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection meet these objectives . I hope they will be supported by this House .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , Mrs Lienemann has just painted a very drastic picture of how important water and air are to us , especially as the very source of life for human beings .
The problem is one of both water quality and water resources , of which there is not a plentiful supply everywhere in Europe , especially in very dry regions .
A great deal of work has been carried out between then and this second reading by numerous Members of the European Parliament , the European Commission and the Council of Ministers .
We reduced the 243 proposed amendments in the Environment Committee to 77 , but another 30 have been added .
You see , there are numerous matters of concern here and they are all very different . Some want tighter legislation , some want more clarification , others want to serve national interests .
Even within my group , the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , there were , of course , differences of opinion .
Our line is to work towards realistic objectives and practicable solutions .
In this sense , the proposed amendments tabled by me and other members on behalf of the group represent an improvement on the demands set out in the common position .
Some proposed amendments which we support should strengthen the European Parliament ' s negotiating position in the forthcoming conciliation with the Council of Ministers .
We obviously reject all unrealistic demands which affect the European Parliament ' s credibility .
For me , that includes the zero demand , i.e. the demand for zero inputs up to 2020 .
That would sound the death knell for every agricultural and many industrial undertakings .
Farmers have voiced a number of concerns over the past few days .
You can only farm if you have an adequate supply of clean water .
The line followed by our group for the negotiations with the Council of Ministers will allow an acceptable solution to be found for farmers too .
I am horrified that both Members of Parliament and the public have been misled by false arguments in this difficult and sometimes highly technical matter .
I therefore extend my special thanks to my colleagues in the group who helped us find compromises .
I also extend my special thanks to our rapporteur , Mrs Lienemann , for all her work and her cooperative attitude , even if we have agreed to differ on certain points .
And I also thank the representatives of the European Commission , who stood by with advice and expert help at all times .
Mr President , I would firstly like to congratulate Mrs Lienemann on the excellent work which she has presented and on her efforts in terms of overcoming the differences between us with regard to water .
The framework directive on water is a necessary initiative .
Nevertheless , given that the idea of solidarity is central to the process of European construction , this directive must take into account the fact that water resources should be seen as a factor in social cohesion .
Nobody doubts that water is a resource of interest to all of us .
However , in Spain and the other southern countries , which have an unusual climate , the management of water resources require political action in order to rationalise their use and other cooperative measures .
I am now going to briefly discuss the main issues on which the Spanish Socialist delegation differs somewhat from certain positions which have been expressed here .
One example is water transfers .
We would prefer the future framework directive not to subject the implementation of transfers to Community supervision .
In Spain , a policy of full recuperation of water costs would clearly not have the same effect as in the countries of the centre and north of Europe .
We want to build a Europe with a sustainable and healthy environment .
However , an environmental Europe cannot , in any circumstances , be built at different speeds , but must be built from a point of view of solidarity .
Mr President , the ecological disaster in the Danube reminds us of how closely linked all the countries of Europe are and how important water is to us all .
Discharges from chemical factories in my own constituency in the north-west of England will end up on the beaches of mainland Europe .
This brings home the connections which bind us together .
This framework directive is intended to paint the broad brushstrokes of the policy for the next decades and there has been much panic over the details .
It is important for us to remember that this is a framework .
These brushstrokes are indeed very broad .
It is easy for individual countries , for individual sectors of industry , to escape the effects which have been painted to us in recent days .
There are many opportunities to hide .
The reality is that the details of this legislation will be set out in daughter directives in months and years to come .
That is the time to debate some of these problems of detail .
There is a chemical factory in the north-west which wrote to me to say that we must vote against this legislation .
I would have to ask them what chemicals they are putting into the water supply at the moment and why they are not broadcasting to all the residents in that area exactly what they are doing .
This is something that they prefer to avoid doing .
The principle also concerns water charging .
I want to refer to the political position here .
The common position has weakened the stand taken by Parliament at first reading .
Some of the NGOs would say that the directive as now framed is worse than useless . It is a retrograde step .
This is an opportunity for us to improve the situation .
We need to get ourselves into a position of conciliation .
We have seen vote after vote lost .
Measure after measure has come out of the Environment Committee . We have failed to achieve a qualified majority .
Our attempt to improve the environment of Europe has failed .
We need to get into that conciliation position .
We need , at the end of the day , to ensure that we end up with a sensible , balanced policy of real improvements at a reasonable cost .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , as long as nearly thirty years ago , the European Commission made attempts to draw up a European water policy .
A hundred and twenty-nine chemical substances had to be regulated .
Eventually , standards were drawn up for only a dozen or so substances .
The unanimity principle was at the root of this debacle .
Some seven years ago , it still looked like the European water policy was going to be sacrificed on the altar of subsidiarity .
This sentiment is partly reflected in the common position which came about under British Socialist Presidency .
That position is like holey cheese , or to keep it the sphere of water , as leaky as a sieve .
It explains the ground swell of amendments which were tabled by the Committee on the Environment : nearly one hundred amendments for the second reading .
This is unusual , but most of these amendments are desperately needed to plug the holes .
The dangerous chemical substances constitute a big leak .
The chemical industry and , unfortunately , the European Commission and the Council of Ministers too want to draft a separate risk analysis for each dangerous substance .
This is very time-consuming , and , more importantly , there is no acceptable level of pollution for dangerous chemical substances .
Only the background level of the ocean is acceptable . This is what is meant by the term " close-to-zero " .
The Commission already has a list of 32 priority substances , many of which have a hormone-deregulating effect .
These are so-called endocrine disrupters and cause , even in extremely minimal quantities , changes in the gender of animals and even humans , as is more and more being ascertained by scientists .
This is why it is so important that the European Parliament declares itself openly in favour of the OSPAR objective of close-to-zero by the year 2020 .
I would like to mention two substances from the Commission ' s list : mercury and tributyl , abbreviated to TBT .
On the bottom of the Wadden Sea , the values of mercury and TBT are higher than the OSPAR value , to wit , ten and one thousand times , respectively .
The chemical industry and society as a whole have to learn to replace these dangerous chemical substances by harmless substitutes , and if this is impossible , to apply them in closed systems .
For the substance TBT , this means that it can no longer be used as an anti-fouling substance .
A sound alternative would be to clean the ship ' s sides mechanically .
Mr President , the European Parliament has a crucial role to play in the development of the Water Directive .
The Council 's common position is totally inadequate in a number of areas .
Therefore , our task is to make the requirements in the directive tighter and more concrete .
As members of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , we regarded certain principles as particularly important when we adopted a position on the different proposals .
Firstly , we think that the time-frame for implementing the proposed measures should be shorter than that proposed by the Council .
We therefore support the proposal to reduce the time allotted for implementing different parts of the directive .
Secondly , I should like the phasing out of noxious materials to be carried out consistently .
There should be no initial delay to allow new evaluation criteria to be developed before the measures are implemented .
The legislation should also have written into it the fact that the international conventions , such as the OSPAR Convention must be respected .
Thirdly , we should like a clear statement regarding the pricing policy .
This means that the basic principle must be that the price should represent the real cost of the water used .
Nowadays , taxpayers often have to subsidise industry and farming .
The obvious point of departure for legislation should be that polluters or consumers pay , although exemptions would be permitted in extreme cases .
Fourthly , we should like exemptions from the rules on water status to be kept to a minimum and clearly defined .
Fifthly , the protection of groundwater status and measures against persistent pollution of the groundwater should be transparent and clear .
Against that background , our group is able to vote in favour of most of the amendments tabled by Mrs Lienemann , the rapporteur , as adopted in committee .
As regards pricing policy , there are sometimes extreme cases which may require derogations from the principles laid down in the report .
My own view is that the options for allowing derogations had already been given proper attention in Amendment No 43 , tabled by the committee and been even more clearly set out in the Greens ' Amendment No 105 .
I cannot see any need for other derogations besides those specified in the two amendments just mentioned .
However , some people in our political group think otherwise .
Consequently , Amendment No 107 , on the same question , has been tabled by one section of our group only .
On the whole , I welcome the committee 's proposals set out in Mrs Lienemann 's report and think they could provide a good basis for a hard-won compromise .
Mr President , every satellite photo proves that we do indeed live on the blue planet , yet the abundance of water is an illusion .
The recent disaster on the Danube serves as a reminder that our rivers are the lifelines of our planet and that pollution does not respect borders .
Water is a renewable but limited natural resource .
It becomes scarcer when it is mismanaged and when the geographical and climatic conditions are unfavourable .
In the EU , this is a crucial issue in the Mediterranean region and also in other European countries where we are witnessing the gradual drying of wet areas .
We have therefore tabled amendments to highlight the importance of the special relationship between agriculture and water , given that water is an essential factor in the occupation and development of the land .
Agricultural needs are clearly much greater in the south and this specific point must be taken into account in the framework directive .
We are not , fortunately , at this point .
However , we are in Europe experiencing droughts and desertification in certain regions and also floods , which the directive underlines .
For example , France , the Rhine valley and central Europe recently suffered flooding .
We need this framework directive as an essential element of a sustainable development policy which must make the various uses of water compatible with each other .
Yet we also need to integrate the protection and conservation of biodiversity into this new management of water .
The water issue will definitely not be settled today . In fact , the problems of enlargement and climate change will offer new prospects .
Mr President , it is very likely that , during this century , good-quality water will be of even more strategic importance than oil .
This is enough reason to thank Mrs Lienemann for the efforts she has made to obtain sound surface water .
It seems rather complicated to attain a proper European legislative framework .
With the framework directive on water policy , we are hoping to end the fragmentation of the EU ' s water legislation .
But that has not dismissed us from the task of drawing up an extensive and complicated directive which will require great care in its implementation from the executive bodies .
More specifically , the possibilities for adopting a specific policy by Member States and water boards , which have been set up thanks to the catchment basin approach , need to be maximised .
As far as the discharge of these dangerous substances is concerned , I am of the opinion that the Councils ' objectives lack both commitment and ambition .
The Committee on the Environment ' s present proposal to reduce discharges to close-to-zero is , in my view , to be welcomed and worthy of emulation .
However , a great deal of attention must be paid to its viability .
Consideration must then be given to natural background emissions which cannot be influenced , as well as diffused emissions which are difficult to control , and which pollute the water quite substantially .
Mr President , we need to get used to the idea in the 21st century that we have to show water a completely new respect .
In the 20th century , water was merely a free evacuation and disposal system for poisonous substances , special waste , chemicals and so on . And we can already see the consequences !
We need to rethink and recognise that water is our most important asset and that our responsibility towards it goes far beyond the present generation .
The directive must be negotiated accordingly and our citizens must be able to understand what we or rather what the Commission is planning here .
Given the advanced state of pollution of water resources , it is important not just to maintain the status quo but to ensure during the vote tomorrow that we achieve genuine quality improvements .
Mr President , it must be some six years ago now that Mr Karl-Heinz Florenz , assisted by Mrs Ursula Schleicher , put in a request and managed to overhaul the water policy in its entirety .
It is not an easy topic and , in my opinion , the efforts made by Mrs Lienemann are very laudable indeed .
The decision-making process concerning this framework directive on water has reached a crucial stage .
The topic has been brought under the codecision procedure and as a result , we have been able to draft important , more stringent legislation as early on as at first reading .
In fact , the common position which was issued at the end of last year was already a major improvement on the original proposal .
It is also very hard to adopt policy in this respect because the discrepancies are so huge .
I would like to enter into the two elements of this topic in more detail .
I would first of all like to focus on quality .
The Netherlands is significantly affected by the European water policy .
A very important component , to wit , one third of our drinking water , is extracted from surface water in the Netherlands .
The Netherlands is located downstream , in a delta , which means that the quality of the surface water which heads our way is of key importance .
Another important point of discussion is the standardisation of water quality .
In a number of amendments , the proposed standards and especially the OSPAR standard for 2020 are called into question .
I would now like to say a few words on quantity management .
In his poem " Herinneringen aan Holland " [ " Reminiscing about Holland " ] , a famous Dutch poet mentioned water too , which , with its never-ending trail of destruction , was feared and respected .
In 1953 , we suffered an enormous flood at a time when we were able to play a pioneering role in terms of dam technology .
When our rivers flooded in 1990 , we established that installing artificial works upstream affects the water-storage capacity downstream and can cause a great deal of damage .
This means that in terms of quantity management too , we need to put in considerable effort to ensure that life upstream and downstream is not affected by it .
Mr President , I too would like to start by congratulating Mrs Lienemann on her excellent work .
Water is a basic necessity of life and a fundamental right .
Everyone should have clean water at their disposal but the availability and good quality of water is not so self-evident , as many have experienced in Southern Europe and are experiencing now in the Danube countries too .
Water is often a source of conflict between countries and peoples .
This is why it is important that water becomes subject to international coordination .
We need to recognise that water is a joint liability .
Cooperation within a catchment basin must be self-evident .
Too little operational capacity upstream or , in fact , excessive use , can cause problems downstream .
Coordination is the key word here .
The problem of water is becoming increasingly topical .
Changes in the climate and minor rises in temperature have a direct impact on precipitation .
Some areas are becoming drier , whilst many are becoming wetter .
It is time for action .
In March , the Second World Water Forum will be held in The Hague .
This Forum stands for a worldwide vision .
This vision must translate into regional action plans for sustainable water management and water control .
The time for action is upon us .
The European Parliament must now opt for a sustainable water policy as a starting point and remain realistic at the same time .
But we should not lower our standards too much either .
The common position is not ambitious enough .
This is why it is necessary to refer to previous international agreements , or the OSPAR objectives .
We need to aim for dangerous substances to be phased out by 2020 .
This has been agreed for the marine environment and it is obvious that this agreement will also apply to other waters too .
The OSPAR objectives are now being drawn up .
A list has been compiled , containing 400 substances which produce clear risks for the environment .
It is both technically and economically possible to reduce the emission of these substances to virtually zero and we need to opt for this once again .
Needless to say , the directive also needs to be binding .
Countries downstream must be able to count on the fact that countries upstream meet the quality objectives .
Quality has a price , but pollution could well have a much higher price tag in future .
Mr President , Commissioner , my compliments to Mrs Lienemann on her excellent work on the Water Directive .
We should also recognise that , in Europe , our fresh water sources may be said to be on the borderline between being owned by everyone and by no-one .
It is therefore strategically important that responsibility for water is established .
It is also important for the different watercourses to be kept together and managed as the totality they in fact are , irrespective of who owns one section or another of a common watercourse .
However , I have the impression that the policy in the water framework directive is geared towards deregulation and renationalisation .
I also hope that the vote will not be a washout and that will depend on what I see as two quite fundamental points .
First OSPAR .
We know that the Commission proposal does not go far enough ; unfortunately this also applies to the proposal by the Committee on the Environment .
Merely pulling proposals out of the air is not enough .
What we need is a completely legally binding objective for OSPAR .
Only then will we manage to achieve legal clarity and , more importantly , objectives which are enforceable under the law .
Anything else will fall short of the mark and will not help to prevent ecological disasters , such as those which have just come to light in Romania and Hungary , from happening to us .
I find it unfortunate that national governments are not prepared to stand up for legally binding protection , despite having agreed internationally on OSPAR .
But I think that this is exactly what we have to make up for here in Parliament , in order to demonstrate that we will not allow the credibility of our policy to be lost or compromised .
It is also important to reinforce the polluter pays principle because prices must speak the ecological truth .
Water is our most important resource and we must use our vote to ensure that the incentives and pressure are there to really comply with the OSPAR convention .
With closed production circuits this is possible ; anything else would water down the directive .
Let us grab our chance .
I know that this directive may have problems , given the differing situations of the various countries of the Union , as has already been mentioned .
The situation in the north is different from that in the south , and different from the situation in those countries which have the problem of desert areas .
I understand this .
There are also difficulties with the issue of transfers .
However , Mrs Lienemann ' s report also says that the river basins receiving the transferred water must save and protect their water .
Mr President , my compliments to the rapporteur on a splendid report .
As an Irish Member of the European Parliament , coming from a country which has large reserves of rich water , I support the vast majority of the proposals included in this directive .
However , I would now like to look at the areas of difference between Parliament 's Committee on the Environment and the Council .
The latter has already brought forward its common position on this matter .
I see no reason why European Union Member States cannot work to implement the key provisions of this directive in as short a time as possible .
I now turn to the amendments to be tabled before Parliament tomorrow concerning the principle of the recovery of cost of water usage .
The Council in its common position states that the European Union governments must take account of the principle of recovery of the cost of water usage .
No specific target date for the implementation of this principle was included in the common position .
Amendment No 43 seeks to ensure that by the year 2010 water pricing policies in Europe must provide adequate incentives to use water efficiently .
Moreover , an adequate contribution from different economic sectors , broken down into industrial , household and agricultural sectors , must ensure that this policy is implemented .
Unless these amendments are supported tomorrow a strong message will be sent out that metering and water rates should be implemented for households right across the European Union states .
This is politically impractical from an Irish perspective , as indeed it would be from the perspective of other EU Member States such as Portugal , Greece and Spain .
Mr President , I want first of all to say thank you to Mrs Lienemann for her report .
It is here and now that we decide to what extent the EU countries are to work effectively for a cleaner aquatic environment in the years to come .
We can do this by , as a Parliament , amending the Council ' s common position and showing the way forward in working for a cleaner environment .
In its unaltered form , the present directive could , in fact , have very unfortunate and long-term consequences for the environment and for our drinking water .
It would be to send out the wrong signals both to European industry and to the European people .
It is crucial to adhere to a limit upon total discharges of chemicals into our waters .
The directive quite obviously provides too extended a time frame within which time is to be spent measuring every single one of the approximately 100,000 chemicals in circulation .
We cannot afford to wait .
We cannot delay environmental work by going into inordinate detail rather than working on reducing total discharges of hazardous substances into the environment .
The EU ' s Ministers for the Environment must therefore stand by their affiliation to the OSPAR Convention , which now already defines what is hazardous to the environment .
This Convention should be our guide in working for the clean environment which we owe to ourselves and , not least , to our descendants .
Mr President , it is difficult to summarise the areas covered by such a large and complex directive .
The Treaty of Amsterdam reiterates the priority criteria for prevention , for the implementation of the ' polluter pays ' principle and for sustainable development through an environmental impact assessment .
This situation is loudly echoed in many sectors of the economy , and especially in the agricultural sector .
We can achieve this long-term objective by developing measures with demanding standards .
This directive contains a number of very positive elements which are worth highlighting .
First there is wide information for and involvement by the public , a rarity in a European directive .
Secondly , there is compulsory cooperation .
Thirdly , I should like to address the question of the timetable .
I am firmly convinced that we need a strict , tight timetable in order to work towards our long-term objective .
Compare it with what happens in December .
We all know in December that Christmas Eve falls on 24th December and we start buying presents .
But what would we do if we knew in December that Christmas was in thirty years ' time .
We all know what we would do , which is why we need a tight timetable for our water policy .
I emphatically support the rapporteur ' s proposals and think that we need a tight timetable for all areas of the directive , from the list of measures to the question of employment measures .
May I take this opportunity to remind you that previous resolutions concerning the Nitrates Directive have still not been implemented in all Member States , in spite of the fact that there is a common EU resolution .
The present proposal tightens up the protection of the aquatic environment in a number of ways which exceed our current environmental objectives .
It is proposed that a target should be achieved for concentrations in the aquatic environment which is close to the background values for naturally occurring substances and close to zero for humanly produced synthetic substances .
This cannot be done , and it also , in any case , goes against nature .
European agriculture would not , for example , be able to grow bread grain with a high enough protein content for it to be used for making bread .
As a result , agricultural production would move to other countries outside the EU , with consequent high socio-economic and employment costs .
I cannot vote in favour of the sections in the Water Framework Directive which deal with these states of affairs .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , water is a precious raw material .
Millions of people do not even have clean water - a absolute necessity for survival - at their disposal .
It should , therefore , not surprise us that water is the cause of wars .
The capitalist world too sends out its pawns in order to gain maximum control over water reservoirs .
General interest or solidarity often do not come into the equation .
Europe is therefore facing an arduous task ; that of combining a Community water policy which is fragmented in terms of objectives and means into more coherent framework legislation .
I have to admit that in Flanders , where I come from , we still have a long way to go too .
We were recently rapped on the knuckles by the Commission regarding this matter .
Anyone with any sense would like to see this framework directive used as a big stick for those pursuing policies who are now failing in some way .
The common position is in this respect a farce , a document with no strings attached and a true affront in the light of the OSPAR agreements .
The period of implementation can even be extended up to 34 years .
By then , my children will be older than I am now .
You have to admit : this is a joke .
I would like to finish off with this observation .
In the past couple of months , we have witnessed a great deal of lobbying in Belgium .
What was remarkable about this dossier was the enormous pressure from the Council of Ministers .
In our own country , this pressure was exerted by both Flemish and Wallonian Environment administrations .
They have opted for the weak common position in favour of our Parliament ' s more drastic positioning .
I really do wonder whether this is an approach of which the green Environment Ministers in my country are aware .
Ladies and gentlemen , fine words are no longer sufficient .
We need to change tack completely .
During the vote tomorrow , we can make it clear that Europe is drafting a responsible and future-orientated water policy .
This can only benefit our credibility .
The debate is suspended and will resume at 9 p.m.
The dialogue on Europe - institutional reform
The next item is the Commission communication - The dialogue on Europe - institutional reform : the issues at stake .
This morning , in the lengthy debate which I attended with Mr Prodi , many of you mentioned the lack of democracy and remoteness of the European institutions .
Yet it is not just a question of who does what , as one of you said very clearly and forcefully .
Ensuring that our citizens understand who does what in our various institutions is the very least we can do .
We must also now explain what we are doing together and what we want to do together in the future , particularly with the countries which will be joining us .
We hope to conduct this initiative in cooperation with the Member States and in conjunction with the European Parliament .
We will produce a regular summary of this initiative so that public opinion can be measured and we can adjust or reorient the work .
We also hope to conduct this initiative in consultation with the national parliaments , local elected representatives , non-governmental organisations , socio-professional organisations and the media .
The Commission will propose that the Member States become involved in this exercise either as part of ad hoc cooperation or a more structured partnership .
We are setting up a media plan and close contacts with the European Union Presidency and the European Parliament .
I have indicated the conditions under which the Commissioners will play their part through public meetings and visits .
We want to encourage debate among the people .
So this is what we are going to do . We will have a budget of approximately EUR 4 million for 2000 which you will hopefully approve .
We will launch this dialogue on 8 March in Brussels in the presence of 700 young Commission stagiaires .
That is all I have to say for the moment .
I welcome any questions , suggestions or proposals from the Members present .
Colleagues , you know the rules .
You are expected to ask questions , not necessarily make lengthy statements .
You have one minute each in which to ask your question .
Mr President , I think I also speak for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that I chair , in expressing my appreciation of this Commission initiative .
Moreover , this initiative is consistent with recommendations made by Parliament itself in its resolution of 18 November .
I have also heard Commissioner Barnier ' s clarification of relations and links with the European Parliament during the implementation of this programme .
Thank you , Mr Napolitano . I can confirm that our proposal is completely within the spirit of the resolution of 18 November .
I understand your concern , Mr Napolitano , and an interinstitutional working group will be set up .
Its first meeting should take place in March .
You realise that making a success of this dialogue means work for everyone concerned .
Mr President , Commissioner , it is music to my ears to hear you use the word ' citizen ' so often .
We are increasingly concerned in this House about public opinion .
The fear of public opinion is a rather paternalistic concept but our House is what it is and we must do what we can with it .
As you know , there are problems which not only concern this House but also the European officials who are also European citizens .
Mr President , Mr Commissioner , the day before yesterday , there was a leading news item in the most popular Danish news programme , which I would ask you to comment on .
Will you confirm what is the case ?
Mr Haarder , to my knowledge no official has been authorised to say such a thing .
My personal opinion is that it would be wrong and unfair to penalise the Austrian people , businesses and employees because of concerns prompted by the establishment in Austria of a new government coalition .
Therefore , subject to verification which I or someone else will give immediately after this sitting , I can confirm what you have just said , that the Commission has never said or authorised anything of this sort .
Commissioner Barnier , you laid great stress in your statement on the importance of dialogue with the citizens of Europe .
With reference to the IGC , as you know , under the Helsinki decisions the Portuguese Presidency was given the specific entitlement to add to the agenda of the IGC during the course of the IGC .
Clearly , Parliament has its own representatives present , Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos .
Mr Beazley , my answer is clearly yes but that is no surprise .
I will perhaps say this differently from Mr Tsatsos and Mr Brok who are your direct representatives but it is also probable that , in many cases , we will say this together .
This is why I congratulate Mr Napolitano ' s initiative for regular joint consultation between the national parliaments of the Fifteen and the European Parliament .
Having said that , the duty of transparency and debate starts here with regard to the reform of the institutions .
I will therefore be available whenever you want in order to inform you of our positions and the progress being made in these negotiations throughout this year .
Mr President , firstly I would like to compliment the Commission on its approach .
I have two questions . Firstly , you mentioned that you will start a two-way dialogue with the citizens and I am already making a start with the 700 placement students at the European Commission .
Do you intend to address the citizens via the media as well , that is to say via the television and Internet ?
My second question is of a critical nature .
The European Commission has just issued a proposal on transparency .
My question is really : how do you intend to organise transparency with regard to the IGC , because the present directive is not a good example of this .
Mrs Maij-Weggen , given that we are talking about ensuring transparency in the IGC , it is clear how business will be conducted and the negotiations are starting right now .
The group of representatives is currently meeting in Brussels and I will try to join them as soon as possible .
The documents will in the main be open working documents .
The Commissioners will undertake to respond rapidly to any questions raised .
These are the modern means to be used .
However , I believe we must also make the effort to get as close as possible to the people .
Although this may be a rather Utopian ideal , I want a Commissioner , when he can , an MEP , a minister to attend public debates in all the regions of Europe .
I have evidence that this is possible . The majority of you hold these debates in your constituencies and regions .
Mr President , I welcome Mr Barnier ' s commitment to go to the regions , both to explain and to listen to what citizens have to say .
I would like to invite him to my own region of Yorkshire , a major European region that is a full participant in the single European market and a major recipient of European structural funding .
He can come with both the hats that he wears as a Commissioner .
I would like to ask him how vigorous the Commission will be in this information campaign ?
In some Member States it is not just a matter of providing information to a public that is not as well informed as it might be .
That is certainly important but it is also a question of combating the misinformation that is put around by a very active anti-European movement and anti-European organisations that exist .
The Commission will have to be very vigorous in the responses that it puts out to some of the comments that it will be receiving as part of the campaign .
Mr Corbett , thank you for your comments .
I willingly accept your invitation .
If I have understood you correctly , you want me , when I come to Yorkshire , to talk not only about the reform of the European institutions but also the Structural Funds .
I can perform this dual task .
I forgot to mention my intention to go before the national parliaments , as I have already done , not only by meeting their representatives here but by going to see them in situ .
Ten days ago I was in Westminster , so you can see , Mr Corbett , that I am not afraid of the difficulties .
Next week I will go to the Bundestag in Berlin .
I have already appeared before the French Senate .
Therefore , throughout this debate , whenever I can , I will go directly to see the national parliaments too .
With regard to the dialogue with our citizens , it is not a question of propaganda or marketing , nor even of communication .
Mr President , I should like to join Mr Barnier ' s study group with the 700 trainees so that he has some people to discuss matters with .
It is not much fun , of course , having to discuss transparency and intergovernmental conferences with yourself .
Is not Mr Barnier nervous about penetrating the inner workings of the Member States ' election processes ?
It is , of course , these issues which people go to the polls about and which lead to new majorities in the Folketing and other parliaments .
Can such matters be controlled from Brussels ?
Is this an element in the radical decentralisation which Mr Prodi talked about this morning ?
I hope that in his pursuit of dialogue around the regions of Europe , Commissioner Barnier will expand upon that thought and learn from what he hears .
Do you believe that these proposals , or proposals of this type , form part of the mandate of the IGC as defined in Helsinki ?
I do not think so .
Are you not afraid that such penalties might get out of hand and serve to punish not violations of human rights but simple differences of opinion , unpopular opinions or deviations from the dominant European thinking ?
In terms of social protection , I can confirm that we have made proposals about qualified majority or unanimous voting but these are regardless of ideology .
In your country , Mr Bonde , like everywhere else , I believe people are keen for the internal market to work properly under the fairest conditions of competition and movement of goods and people .
This will therefore be our rule .
I am well aware of the sensitivity of these taxation and social protection issues .
I do not believe that all the national systems of social protection should be made identical .
Mr MacCormick , I agree that this dialogue must reach beyond the national capitals . It must get as close as possible to the people , where they live and where they have their roots .
We will therefore conduct this dialogue with the towns and regions .
Mr Berthu , the Helsinki mandate is clear and we are working within this .
It specifies that we must deal firstly and as a priority with the three basic issues which were left out in Amsterdam .
It also adds related institutional questions and issues which may be included in the negotiations depending on the Portuguese and French presidencies .
The Commission is acting correctly if , on a particular point , it believes it must add to its opinion which covers many institutional questions . I am not yet sure that we will do this on Article 7 .
Everything which can be done will be useful . I am sure that you and I , Mr Berthu , can at least agree on this .
Thank you , Commissioner .
You have answered the questions precisely and also opened the dialogue for Europe that you referred to .
You have set a very good example of time-keeping today .
That concludes the debate .
Question Time ( Commission )
The next item is Question Time ( B5-0009 / 2000 ) .
We will examine questions to the Commission .
First part
Question No 36 by ( H-0025 / 00 ) :
Mr President , the Commission is conscious of the very difficult situation concerning health and health facilities in Kosovo , not just for pregnant women but across the board .
This results both from the recent conflict and from the years of neglect and lack of maintenance that preceded it .
The statistics quoted on child mortality speak for themselves and are wholly unacceptable .
However , the situation is hardly better for other parts of the population .
The Commission ' s response has been as follows : firstly , the health sector has been a significant beneficiary of ECHO funding .
ECHO is currently focusing on the provision of medical supplies and emergency health care , on support to institutions as well as vaccination .
However , efforts are increasingly oriented towards the establishment of a self-sufficient healthcare system in the province .
UNMIK has already taken a significant role in this field .
Secondly , under the reconstruction programme , urgent intervention at the hospital in Mitrovica has already been initiated with a EUR 1 million rehabilitation programme .
Progress is slow due to the tense relations between the ethnic groups of this divided city .
However , the Commission is maintaining its efforts with the support of UNMIK for this project .
We hope that one day it may become a symbol promoting the benefits of ethnic reconciliation .
Under the European Community ' s damage assessment , estimated costs of the reconstruction of healthcare facilities and provision of equipment to dispensaries and health houses amount to EUR 4 million .
The Commission is now turning to the programming of 2000 funds .
We expect to dedicate a considerable sum to improving the healthcare system .
The emphasis will be on long-term reforms covering health financing as well as training and procurement .
Work is already under way with UNMIK to determine an appropriate contribution from the Commission to this enterprise .
Besides , Commissioner , is so-called humanitarian military intervention justified by the present picture of human destruction in Kosovo ?
Do you think that so much inaction is excusable when , on the continent of Europe itself , the right to life is at risk ?
I am sure the honourable Member did not mean that .
Of course , she is entirely correct in saying that the Union ' s credibility is on the line with what happens , not just in Kosovo but in the Balkans as a whole .
I am very concerned that the assistance we provide should arrive expeditiously and in a way which can maximise our assistance .
I would just make two points about the situation in Kosovo which we are addressing as enthusiastically as we can along WHO lines .
As a result of that , a parallel health care system was put in place through the Mother Teresa Society .
So what we are dealing with is not just the consequences of conflict but the consequences of years of neglect and chronic under-investment .
Those were cases in which women who during the hostilities , or before the hostilities , tragically killed their own children .
We are dealing with a horrific story in Kosovo .
We have to work as well as we can in the health care field and in others to restore something approaching civilised standards and civilised behaviour , but it is not going to be easy .
Commissioner , I would like to thank you for your response to the Member ' s first question and the supplementary question .
However , I still have some contacts in Kosovo who have informed me that food packages which are distributed by ECHO , among others , are often of inferior quality .
In some cases , there have been incidents of food containing insects and such like .
Are you aware of this ?
Are you prepared to act upon it ?
This is my first additional question .
My second question pertains to the reconstruction of the hospital in Mitrovica .
You are perhaps aware that this hospital is located in the Northern part of the city and that , given the tense situation , Albanian Kosovars do not have any access to this section at all .
What does the Commission intend to do in order to ensure that Albanian Kosovars too can get to hospital ?
On the first question , I am going myself to Kosovo at the beginning of next month for another visit and I will certainly look into the allegation made by the honourable Member about the ECHO food package .
I have not heard that suggestion before , but it is an important point and I will certainly investigate it when I am there .
Secondly , I do understand exactly what the honourable Member is saying about Mitrovica .
I was in Mitrovica a couple of months ago , I saw the situation there for myself .
We will try to address them , but it is not easy .
Question No 37 by ( H-0029 / 00 ) :
The Commission supports any effort aimed at the settlement of the disputes between Turkey and Armenia and regrets that there has not yet been any normalisation of relations between these two countries .
In the present political circumstances it is however unrealistic to imagine that the border between Armenia and Turkey , as well as the one between Armenia and Azerbaijan could be opened without settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict .
Mr President , the Commission will be holding negotiations in the future on the accession of Turkey to the European Union .
My question therefore is this : will the Commission make this one of the conditions in order to improve future discussions ?
The key issue is to support the efforts of the OSCE Minsk group to find a settlement to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict and we stand ready to help in any way we can .
We have also been substantial contributors of development assistance under the TACIS programme to Armenia .
Let me relate my answer specifically to the question of Turkish accession to the European Union .
The situation of Turkey 's relations with its neighbours will , as the honourable Member asks , be closely examined in the framework of the pre-accession strategy .
As stated in Agenda 2000 - and I quote : " Enlargement should not mean importing border conflicts " .
That statement could not be much clearer .
But I repeat that the most important contribution we can make is to try to assist in the resolution of that conflict which has had such harmful economic and humanitarian results .
Question No 38 by ( H-0040 / 00 ) :
The Commission has no information regarding the impact of the construction of the Ilisu Dam on the population of the region .
We will , however , consider raising the matter with the Turkish authorities , together with other issues concerning regional development policies in the framework of the new pre-accession strategy for Turkey .
I have a related point .
It concerns the implications of the dam on access to fresh water in the region as a whole .
As you know , the dam will limit the supply of fresh water to Syria and to Iraq in particular .
Can you say whether you will indeed raise this point as well ?
We will certainly raise the point made by the honourable Member .
We have heard anxieties expressed on that point and I will ensure it is taken up .
There have also been considerable anxieties expressed about the potential danger to the archaeological heritage in the area .
We will raise that , too , in the representations we make .
A number of other hydro-electric schemes planned over the last 30 years in Turkey have raised matters of concern , such as the effect on displaced farmers .
We thank Mr Patten for having replied on behalf of the Commission .
Question No 39 by ( H-0036 / 00 ) :
Subject : Drafting of Charter of Fundamental Rights The general public welcomes the fact that a Charter of Fundamental Rights is to be drawn up .
It is also to be hoped that it will meet the challenges of Europe in the 21st century .
What are the Commission 's views on the substance of the Charter ? What type of rights will the Charter set out ( economic , social and cultural ) ?
Which citizens will it cover ( those of the European Union or the citizens of all European countries with a view to enlargement ? Will it cover immigrants etc . ? )
Will it set out established social rights in the European Union or will it set a broader agenda ?
What means will the Charter use to ensure that it clearly guarantees equality between the sexes ?
What are the Commission 's views on incorporating the Charter into the Treaty on European Union ?
The Commission considers that the Convention responsible for drawing up the Charter of Fundamental Rights must respect the mandate given by the Cologne European Council .
Having said that , this does not mean that the Convention should be limited to a codifying role of simply compiling the existing rights from various sources .
However , given the mandate and the final objective of the text to be submitted to the Heads of State and Government , this power must be exercised with caution and on a case-by-case basis .
The rights conferred by this Charter will have at least two types of beneficiary .
Some rights will apply to anyone present in the EU territory while others will benefit only citizens of the European Union .
It may also be envisaged that some economic and social rights could be guaranteed only for citizens of the European Union and third-country nationals meeting certain conditions .
It is not possible at this initial stage of the process of drawing up the Charter to prejudge its content in more detail .
As I have also said before to this House , the Commission is favourable to inserting the Charter in the EU Treaty .
However , we are fully aware that the final decision on this matter will fall to the Heads of State and Government .
The difficult part , which will fall to the Convention , is therefore to draw up an ambitious and politically significant text which can be integrated as such into the Treaties .
Commissioner , it is quite significant that at the beginning of this new century people in Europe , men and women , are being called upon to redefine their rights and obligations .
We hope that this important Cologne Council decision will become a reality .
Globalisation on the one hand and enlargement on the other , make it urgently necessary to define those rights .
Seattle is a real source of concern in that context and we hope that the European Council in Nice will not be a wasted meeting .
In this context , the criteria by which these rights are to be chosen must be clearly indicated .
The essential criterion is the rights of citizens with regard to the European institutions , as contained in the European project enshrined in the Treaties of the European Union .
I understand your concern about the rights of children .
Many elements of our work , and particularly of my work as Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs , involve protecting the rights of children .
This is an area in which the principle of subsidiarity applies fully .
Each Member State is principally responsible for defining its responsibilities towards children .
I hope we can meet the challenge which the honourable Member has posed for the Commission and the whole Convention .
Mr President , I have had the privilege of hearing the Commissioner a number of times on this issue and I very much agree with his approach .
However , I should like to ask a slightly different question .
Would the Commissioner argue for some of the information budget of the Commission to be put towards informing and consulting the citizens on this issue of a Citizens Charter ?
It is very important that the people feel engaged in this process .
I know that the Convention itself will do much in this area but it does not have the resources that the Commission has .
Will the Commission look at using its information budget to ensure people are engaged in this debate ?
I can assure you that the Commission will do its best to promote the debate on the future Charter of Fundamental Rights .
There is no contradiction between the two .
The challenge we have is to bring them together in the final version of the Charter .
I am very glad to know that I can count on your support here .
Question No 40 by ( H-0095 / 00 ) :
It is clear from statements over the past years that Jrg Haider and the Freedom Party do not respect human rights and fundamental freedoms with respect to third country nationals and minority groups living in Austria .
I am referring , of course , to the statement made by the Commission on 1 February 2000 , the basic elements of which I would like to restate .
The Commission confirmed then , as it does today , that it shares the concerns underlying the Portuguese Presidency ' s statement of 1 February 2000 .
These concerns are legitimate and there are good reasons for them .
There is no need for me to remind you of Jrg Haider ' s political bias and of his many xenophobic and racist public statements , which are also anti-European .
Secondly , the Commission reiterated and reiterates again its commitment to continue fulfilling its duty as guardian of the Treaties , specifically with regard to Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty on European Union .
The Commission is not a State .
It cannot and must not act as if it were one .
I repeat , a " serious and persistent breach " is the condition necessary for the Commission to be able to propose to the Council that measures be adopted against a Member State .
I think that it is obvious that conditions have not been met which would apply to the current situation in Austria .
I would also like to assure you though that we will not hesitate to apply it should it prove necessary .
The values at stake are too central , too fundamental for us to accept dithering or compromises .
Individuals and governments should be judged by what they do rather than by what they say .
In Austria ' s case , the statements are contradictory to say the least .
On the one hand , any of us could pick up on a whole cluster of inflammatory remarks by the leader of the Freedom Party .
On the other hand , the new Austrian Government ' s programme reaffirms its commitment to defend democracy and human rights .
We will soon have our first opportunity , and an excellent opportunity it will be , to see which one of these two faces of the Freedom Party is the real one .
I am referring to the position the Austrian Government will adopt at the Council with regard to the Commission ' s proposals for the establishment of an action programme to combat discrimination and for two directives .
Lastly , I would like to assure you , Mr Ford , that the Commission will remain vigilant and will not fail to act in accordance with its responsibilities , should it prove necessary .
I thank the Commissioner for his reply to my question .
But is Commissioner Vitorino aware , not only of Mr Haider 's and the Freedom Party 's words , but also of their deeds ?
Could the Commissioner answer two questions .
Firstly he talked about verification .
Can he tell us how that verification will take place and who will do it ?
We are not talking about words here .
We are talking about deeds by the Freedom Party and Mr Haider .
Therefore I am fully confident that the Commission will be able to follow very closely the evolution of the situation in Austria , as in any other Member State .
If any concrete case of persistent violation of human rights perpetrated by the government of one Member State occurs , we will be entirely capable to react and to act accordingly .
I also rely not only on the cooperation of the Members of the European Parliament , but also on the cooperation of non-governmental organisations , which have always made an important contribution to the anti-discrimination policy of the Commission .
Regarding the situation in Carinthia , we need to look at this in detail .
The honourable Member raised the question .
The protection of ethnic minorities and of minorities that speak a specific language is an element of the programme and of the two directives that the Commission has put before the Council .
We should not only focus this debate on the Austrian question .
That question calls for reflection , for debate and , if necessary , for action .
Thank you very much , Mr Vitorino , for your valuable contribution to this Question Time .
Second part
Questions to Mrs Wallstrm
Question No 41 by ( H-0021 / 00 ) :
The environmental problems stemming from the incineration and the dumping of such waste are mainly attributable to the presence of hazardous substances ( lead , cadmium , mercury , hexavalent chrome , PVC and halogenated flame retarders ) .
A preliminary draft directive intended to regulate the management of such waste has been through three successive versions , the most recent of which dates from July 1999 .
Can the Commission account for the lengthy gestation of this draft , which should in theory have emerged in its final form in 1998 ?
The Commission agrees with MEPs that the current method of dumping electrical and electronic waste is causing major environmental problems .
Consequently , the Commission decided to prepare a proposal on the subject and , since 1997 , has been involved in discussions with the parties concerned .
The outcome of the discussions , as well as of the in-depth investigations which are being carried out in this area , are now being examined by the Commission .
The main argument put forward by the United States in this context is that the present provisions are , they say , incompatible with international trade law .
The Commission is currently carefully reviewing the United States ' arguments .
I should just like to add that my intention is that the Commission should be able to present a proposal on the dumping of electrical and electronic waste before Easter .
My question specifically concerned the reaction of the US Government to the text of the preliminary draft .
There have in fact been three preliminary draft texts with the last one , to my knowledge , dating from July 1999 .
Is this the text which you will be submitting , or an amendment to the original version ?
Version 3 is already much weaker than Version 2 following the comments of US industry as relayed by the US Government .
I note in particular that when you talk about the international law with which the text would not be compatible , you are referring in fact to the rules of the World Trade Organisation .
The arguments of the US Government concern the fact that a future ban on the presence of dangerous substances in electrical and electronic waste would be contrary to the WTO rules .
Thank you for the follow-up question . It is important for me to have a chance to answer it .
The dialogue has been fruitful and has led to our preparing a proposal .
Parts of it have been strengthened , but other parts may well contain too many compromises .
We are still in the process of preparing a text , and the dialogue with the relevant parties will continue up until the last moment .
I do not think that the intervention of the United States should push us in a direction that would lead to our taking insufficient account of environmental considerations .
I strongly oppose using the WTO and trade rules as a pretext for preventing the EU from introducing radical environmental standards .
I start from the assumption that we should in fact introduce these . However , I do want to listen to all the points of view .
For example , I recently met representatives of the electronics industry who put forward suggestions - including practical ones - for improving our own proposal .
However , I totally reject any suggestion that I would allow the United States to determine the shape of our directive .
In fact , I believe that we should be showing the way , an intention that will also characterise the final proposal .
Question No 42 by ( H-0026 / 00 ) :
Is the Commission prepared to adopt an action plan to increase the active participation of women in decision-making in the environmental field ?
In 1988 , the Commission introduced an action plan to promote equal opportunities for women and men .
One of the programme 's aims is to develop and supervise methods , strategies and measures for promoting gender equality in the decision-making process and in positions of responsibility .
Within the framework of the action plan , each individual directorate general is to prepare its own programme of measures . One of the goals of those programmes is to increase the number of women in managerial positions .
The new Commission 's own objective is to double the number of women managers before the end of its term of office .
The same line is being pursued with particular vigour in the Directorate-General for the Environment , where nearly 60 per cent of directors and 20 per cent of unit heads are women .
Our policy is to encourage the recruitment of women to administrative posts in order to create a reserve of suitable candidates for future promotion to managerial positions .
Currently , women hold 24.5 per cent of our A-grade posts , and we hope the number will increase steadily .
Moreover , we are trying hard to attract qualified women to participate in our consultation groups .
As regards our external partners , all we can do is set them a good example and encourage their efforts to democratise their decision-making processes .
With respect to the general principle of incorporating a perspective of equality , as you know , this principle is included in the Treaty of Amsterdam .
Article 3 of the Treaty states that , in all the activities referred to in this Article , the Community shall aim to eliminate inequalities , and to promote equality , between women and men .
The Commission gives its full support to the efforts being made in this area and is continuing its investigations into whether specific measures can be implemented in the environmental field .
I should , of course , like to take this opportunity to say that I appreciate the role played by the European Parliament ' s Committee on Women ' s Rights and Equal Opportunities , particularly its chair .
We shall be monitoring each Commissioner carefully , so the other Commissioners have now been forewarned .
Thank you for your reply . I interpret it as saying that you agree that what is needed is an action plan to enable more women to take part in specific environmental fields .
I should also like to point out that the Beijing Declaration emphasises the importance of having the institutional capacity to introduce a perspective of equality into all environmental programmes .
Environmental agencies often do not have the required knowledge or procedures for incorporating such a perspective into their daily work .
I naturally want to know whether the Commissioner is willing to incorporate the idea of equality into environmental policy and programmes . This is a crucial goal .
In order for all policies to be similarly permeated by the concept of equality , it is especially important that people in key posts should have the basic knowledge required .
.
( SV ) My understanding of mainstreaming is , of course , that this should characterise everything we do .
In the action plan prepared by my Directorate-General , issues of equality play a very important role .
For example , I am prepared to give seminars on leadership or other subjects myself to encourage women to take on further tasks within the Commission .
If we are to be able to motivate everybody , I believe it is extremely important for this message to be sent all the way from the top down or , if you prefer , from the bottom up .
My impression of environment-related work , broadly speaking , is that in many instances it is dominated by women .
This state of affairs must be encouraged so that women have a chance to secure managerial posts or reach high-ranking positions in the environmental field .
I should like to make it plain that our programme reflects that intention , but there is certainly room for improvement .
I have some experience in drawing up plans and following them up .
I hope that this will be of benefit .
Question No 43 by ( H-0045 / 00 ) :
What is more , a very large warehouse has been constructed , in respect of which it is proving difficult to secure access to the planning permission and other infrastructures are planned by the Drogheda Corporation .
How can the Commission ensure that this sort of development financed through the Structural Funds does not conflict with the nature conservation needs of the area ?
Is the Commission ready to suspend funding completely , pending a review of the development plans of the area ?
The Commission is aware of the construction of the harbour , but we know nothing about the warehouse or the rest of the infrastructure mentioned by the honourable Member .
The harbour construction project is receiving support from the Structural Funds and chiefly involves dredging the river Boyne Estuary and depositing the mud on the mudflats at Stegrennan .
The Boyne Estuary is designated a special protection area under the Wild Birds Directive .
An in-depth environmental impact assessment had been carried out .
The most serious harm caused by the project , the damage to the Stegrennan mudflats , was only to be temporary , and the developers were liable for completely restoring the mudflats .
At the Commission 's suggestion , the mudflats at Stegrennan were formally included in the Boyne Estuary special protection area , from which they had previously been excluded .
Furthermore , to compensate for the negative effects on the bird populations caused by the temporary disappearance of the mudflats , the intention was that other habitats in the estuary should be improved .
However , since last summer the measure just mentioned has been in dispute .
Firstly , the Irish authorities withdrew their earlier commitment to carry out improvements .
They then renewed their commitment after an Irish non-governmental organisation began a legal challenge in the Irish courts .
However , the new commitment included some minor changes which , in turn , led to a further complaint .
However , it wishes to discuss the question of compensatory measures with respect to improved habitats with the Irish authorities , particularly in the light of the continuing legal challenge in the Irish courts .
- I do not quite understand what the Commissioner said .
The mudflat at Stregrennan , which was made a special protection area at the request of the Commission , has been completely destroyed at this stage .
It is clear that the activities that have taken place there are in clear breach of EU directives .
You say there will be no further funding .
I would like to know whether you are going to stop completely the funding at this stage until there is a proper investigation .
If not , why not ?
If you are , when exactly are you going to do it ?
Is this right and proper ?
What is your opinion on that ?
Any EU funding for the project must be stopped because it is in clear breach of EU directives .
Even the area designated by the Commissioners as a special protection area has been destroyed .
Compensation afterwards is not going to make up for the damage that was done .
The first legal challenge followed the start of work on the port of development in early autumn 1999 without the compensatory habitat improvements being in place .
As a result , the Irish authorities agreed to reinstate the cord grass removal but this time by direct mechanical means .
There is to date no conclusive outcome to this legal challenge .
The adoption of the necessary compensatory measures is a matter for the national authorities , and does not require prior Commission approval .
The Commission ' s role is to make sure that the standards required by the Birds Directive are fully met , and clearly there would be a problem with compensatory measures which were themselves damaging .
In this case , the Commission proposes to seek further clarification from the Irish authorities on the up-to-date position on the compensatory measures and possible problems with the mechanical removal of cord grass .
We are not at the moment ready to propose to stop the financing from the Structural Funds .
Mr President , sadly , the specific case raised by Mrs McKenna is not an isolated one .
There are other examples of conservation in special scientific areas being damaged as a result of EU funding .
It is only such action which will discourage this practice in the future .
.
( SV ) This is a very important question .
The message contained in the joint text is still valid .
We cannot hand out money with one hand and , with the other , take countries to court , where they may well be fined .
It is therefore important that there be a coordination strategy .
The result may , of course , be some difficult questions of priorities .
In that respect , Ireland falls short , like other Member States , but we hope that the pressure we are exerting will produce results .
I should just like to point out once again that the joint text still holds good .
The Rules of Procedure do not allow this .
You will have to discuss this outside the Chamber .
Questions to Mr Barnier
Question No 44 by ( H-0020 / 00 ) :
However , local authorities have repeatedly expressed the view that ' partnership ' arrangements under the new CSF for Greece have remained unchanged and are singularly lacking in substance .
Has the Greek Government introduced any changes so as to extend the scope of partnership arrangements to the local authorities and other representative bodies ?
I am also saying this as a former environment minister .
The involvement of regional and local authorities in the Community ' s action is , as you know , one of the essential elements of the new post-Berlin Structural Funds Regulation .
Mr Alavanos knows that I have been to Greece twice under the quite tragic circumstances of the earthquake disaster .
During these visits , I held discussions with the Greek Government and raised this concern about the correct implementation of the partnership objective and requirement .
As for the monitoring and management of these programmes , I have not yet received the national provisions proposed by the Greek Government pursuant to Article 8 of the new Regulation .
Within the third CSF , this principle must specifically lead to the participation of all these partners in the monitoring committee .
This is all I can say .
I thank the Commissioner , and do not at all question his intentions and interventions , which adopted a positive line .
However , things are really quite different .
The operation of the Community Support Framework is ruled by a centralising hand and indeed at this time we are experiencing state , government and party delirium as regards the European Union ' s funding .
I cannot show you the television programmes here but I can show you the Greek newspapers from a few weeks before the elections .
There are only a few weeks to go before the elections .
This is both propaganda by the party and propaganda by the candidates , financed by the European Union , the CSF .
My question to the Commissioner is this : what is to be done ?
Will the Commission remain silent ?
Will it discuss the matter ?
Will it bring it up with the Greek Government or will we persist with the pathological situation we had with the previous Commission ?
Mr Alavanos , I see that you have thrown to your left all the documents which you have just cited .
Then if it is really necessary for me to do this , I will make comments or recommendations to the Greek Government .
I would therefore be very pleased if you could pass me these documents or I will come and get them from you later on .
Having said that , I thought your question related more to the partnership issue .
Further to your questions on the pre-electoral period , I can only repeat my intention that local and regional authorities should be involved together with non-governmental organisations .
Subsequently , if I need to ensure that this partnership is disseminated and decentralised , then I will do this .
I cannot do other than work with the Greek Government .
I think that my colleague Mr Alavanos will be giving all these particulars to the Commissioner so that he may be aware of them , because this really is propaganda and not just some way of promoting Community programmes .
What can the Commission do about that ?
However , I am obliged to respect the national authority with which I must conduct these negotiations .
Having said this , I will look at the situation objectively .
I am saying this objectively and when a problem or shortcoming is noted , this must be remedied .
I will therefore monitor this in the implementation of the new Community support framework .
Question No 45 by ( H-0041 / 00 ) :
Can it also undertake to rule out any measures providing financing for research of this type during the negotiations in progress with the Member States on the plans and programmes for the new 2000-2006 period ?
What role will aid from the Structural Funds play , on the other hand , in the promotion of renewable energy ?
Can we expect that Structural Fund financing relating to energy policy will focus on the promotion of regional , renewable energy sources ?
Will the Structural Funds also finance the large-scale energy transmission networks ?
This project amounts to several billion ecus and areas eligible for Structural Funds , such as those listed in Objective 1 , might welcome this type of installation .
We would like to know whether the Commission would be likely to finance this type of project in terms of the installation of this research site rather than directly in the specific ' nuclear research ' context .
You did not fully answer the last part of my question on large-scale energy transmission networks .
Could you please give an answer on this issue ?
You are concerned about whether the Structural Funds will be used to finance the installation of nuclear plants anywhere .
Quite simply there is no question of this .
I said that the selection of projects remains the responsibility of the Member States pursuant to the Structural Funds Regulation .
As a result , the Commission services are not systematically informed of all projects selected .
However , you are right to question me as this is your task , as mine is to answer you .
As has happened in the past , the Member States are required to provide answers when the Commission questions them or asks for clarification .
I will therefore step beyond the confidence usually shared between Member States and the Commission and I will find out exactly what is happening on this specific point .
The Member State or States concerned will then be required to answer me and I will send you this answer as soon as possible .
I thought I had answered your question on large-scale energy transmission networks .
This is the only answer I can give you on the link between large-scale energy transmission networks and the Structural Funds .
Question No 46 by ( H-0052 / 00 ) :
Mr MacCormick , the Commission has no plans to amend the rules concerning additionality which were stipulated , for the 2000-2006 period , in Article 11 of the general Regulation on the Funds .
As in the past , these rules state that the additionality principle applies to the relationship between the Structural Funds and all development expenditure of the Member State .
Provided that the Member State does not reduce all its own expenditure , the Structural Funds are added to the national expenditure and the principle of additionality is therefore respected .
Please excuse this very legal answer .
However , after verification it is precisely in this legal manner and specifically according to the post-Berlin Structural Funds Regulation that we must define and read the additionality principle .
- I am grateful for a clear answer though naturally a little disappointed by its content .
We are left with Article 11 ( 1 ) which says that the appropriations of the funds may not replace public or other equivalent structural expenditure by the Member States .
Very well : that is to be the unchanging rule .
Does section 11 ( 1 ) conceivably authorise the following practice .
Is that really authorised ?
Unfortunately I do not have time to go into depth on this issue .
I am aware of the Member ' s competence on these matters .
I also know the particular problems in your constituency in Scotland where disputes and discussions are occurring on these subjects .
I will go further in the written answer which I have promised in order to set things out more objectively and precisely .
- Additionality is a major issue too in Wales , which I represent .
Just last week it was one of the issues that brought about a vote of no-confidence and the resignation of the First Secretary of the National Assembly of Wales .
As recently as 1991 and 1992 the Commission won a battle with the UK over additionality , at that time linked to the RECHAR funding .
And yet we still have these problems in Wales and in Scotland .
Could the Commission look at this particular situation in relation to the agreement that was signed with the UK Government ?
I take this to mean that the debate of which I was aware in Scotland is also occurring in Wales .
I will verify this point and , if you wish , I will give you a written answer at the same time as the one I have promised to Mr MacCormick .
Therefore , if you wish , as soon as I have this information by sector and region , I will personally send you the information on Andalusia .
Mrs Izquierdo Rojo , I would ask all of you - and do not take this as a warning - to deal with strictly Community matters .
I know that these are very important issues in Spain and there are differing viewpoints .
I would point out to the Commissioner that Mr Aznar is the President of the Spanish Government .
You may answer the question .
Mrs Izquierdo Rojo , I hear that you have a strong voice .
I hope it is loud enough to be heard in Madrid for I realise that what you have said was not strictly intended for me .
I have given you my answer .
I am keen that the Structural Funds , particularly those in Objective 1 , are allocated where needed .
We have criteria which are applied and we know roughly what each of the regions of Europe should or could receive .
I can only say that I must discuss these matters with the national authorities and government of each country . I am not avoiding the issue but I must abide by the general Regulation .
It is the responsibility of these authorities and governments to allocate the funds as objectively and fairly as possible .
I need to know about this allocation , however , and this is why I said that I could not answer today .
As I did not have an answer , I wrote to the Minister for Economic and Financial Affairs on 14 December .
I am about to lose patience at not having received an answer from him but I will send you this when I get it .
I regret that the Commissioner has once again become involved in an imaginative and , in this case , passionate intervention .
I would like to remind all of you that Spain is about to hold elections , and in fact there are just 25 days left before the elections .
It should be of comfort to the Commissioner that these elections will take place in 25 days time , since after that he will probably not have to deal with this type of question again .
Lastly I would like to ask the Commissioner a specific question : Do you consider it necessary to change the implementing regulations for the Structural Funds or do you consider the current distribution criteria to be acceptable ?
This is a fascinating debate which I realise is not totally Community-related .
Having said this , we must accept that elections are always taking place in the countries of the European Union .
I am pleased that the Structural Funds are the subject of discussions in Greece and Spain .
We were talking a short while ago in this House about debates involving our citizens , about public debates .
The more we talk about Europe and what Europe is doing for daily life , even when we disagree , the better this will be , provided that we talk about this objectively .
I am not going to give an opinion on any amendment to the Structural Funds Regulation .
This Regulation was adopted just last year in Berlin and I will be applying it for the next seven years .
For the time being , please let me apply the Regulation which has not yet been applied as it was only approved in Berlin .
This is all I can say today .
Thank you very much for your replies , Mr Barnier .
Questions Nos 48 to 50 will be replied to in writing .
Question No 51 by ( H-0049 / 00 ) :
Subject : New premises for the OHIM At present the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market ( OHIM ) is still operating from the same temporary premises , even though its new building was opened in June 1999 .
In view of this unusual situation , will the Commission say why the OHIM has not yet moved to its new premises ?
The honourable Member asked a question on this topic in November 1999 and I would like to refer him to the answer given at the time .
The Office is not yet ready to move into the new building .
Unfortunately , a number of deadlines have been exceeded .
A number of technical provisions need to be made , such as the installation of a computer network , archives , a canteen and furniture .
The OHIM is now in the process of arranging this and is expecting to move into the new premises by June .
During the previous question , we were discussing electoral issues .
If you had been there , I am sure you would have been ashamed .
The President of the Commission and some secretaries were present .
In the middle of an election campaign , a series of authorities , all of them run by the party in government , made clearly electioneering speeches which , furthermore , were broadcast live on television .
It was bizarre to see the President of the Region of Valencia praising the work of the Spanish Government , as well as his own work , although it was irrelevant to that event .
The opening of a building which was not finished , in the middle of an election campaign , which eight months after the opening can still not be occupied , makes the Spanish Government look ridiculous .
I would therefore like to ask you , Mr Commissioner : does it seem normal to you that an unfinished building should be opened during an election campaign ?
Does it seem normal to you that the Commission should attend such an absurd event organised by the Spanish Government ?
It does not fall within my remit to make statements about internal political situations within one Member State or another .
As such , I would prefer to withhold any comment on the situation which Mr Berenguer has just described .
I have to confess that I fail to comprehend why a certain opening ceremony was held in Spain .
What I can say is that I hope that this building will now be occupied as soon as possible .
May I also add that I hope to be in Alicante myself at the end of May to speak at a conference .
I hope that this building will then be occupied .
I would like to point out to the Commissioner that it is not an electoral question .
As members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market , we have followed the creation of that institution and it is clear that it was established for electioneering reasons .
A year later , it is still not functioning , which means that the Commission spent money on a false opening .
We should ask ourselves to what extent this spending of funds was justified .
I would like to reiterate that the Commission is unconcerned with the underlying motivation of Member State actions .
It is , however , interested in official statements and actions .
We do not intend to go in the direction of what is termed in French un procs d 'intention .
We are concerned with public official actions and events , rather than any possible underlying motivation .
This is why I find it also difficult to meet Mr Medina halfway and respond to his question .
Also , the Commission does not engage itself in finding out whether certain expenditure was real or virtual .
As far as I am concerned , all expenditure is real .
And any remaining skeletons , I intend to leave them in the cupboard .
As the author is not present , Question No 52 lapses .
As they deal with the same subject , Questions Nos 53 and 54 will be taken together .
Question No 53 by ( H-0057 / 00 ) :
Subject : Swedish derogation regarding the import of alcoholic beverages At present , Sweden has a derogation until 2004 allowing restrictions on alcoholic beverage imports .
The Swedish Government and a large percentage of the Swedish people want the derogation to be extended on public health grounds .
What is the Commission 's position on the Swedish derogation concerning these imports ?
Question No 54 by ( H-0117 / 00 ) :
I would like to answer these two questions as follows .
When Sweden joined the European Union , it was allowed to retain quantitative restrictions on alcoholic beverages which travellers can bring into the country from other Member States .
This derogation from the principle of the free movement of goods lapses on 30 June of this year .
Sweden now wants to extend this measure by another five years , as this would be necessary to protect public health .
My position on this is clear .
Sweden has now had sufficient time - since its accession to the Union - to adapt its policies to a situation where such import restrictions do not exist .
I cannot see a reason , therefore , why a further extension for this measure should be proposed .
That is a basic principle governing the internal market and derogations from this principle must be exceptions and must be limited in time .
We want to guarantee that Swedish citizens too can enjoy the benefits of the internal market , just like other citizens of the European Union .
This certainly does not mean that I do not share the concern in Sweden surrounding the possible health problems which can be caused by alcohol abuse .
A recent study , carried out by Professor Lindgren of the University of Lund , however , has shown that abolishing the restrictions would not lead to a higher alcohol consumption in Sweden .
I have already had a chance to discuss my position with Mr Ringholm , the Swedish Finance Minister on two occasions .
I also discussed this matter with the Swedish parliamentary Finance committee last week .
It is now up to the Swedish government to take the necessary measures .
Thank you for your reply .
I should just like to apologise for the error in my question to the Commission .
Instead of 2004 , it should , of course , be 1 July 2000 .
I have some sympathy with the Commission 's standpoint that derogations should only be granted occasionally . Such a rule is only normal .
Nevertheless , I should like to ask two questions : Are you thinking of embarking upon continued discussions with the Swedish Government about extending the derogations , for example for as long as Denmark and Finland have derogations ?
My second question concerns the whole policy on alcohol .
This may , of course , be seen as an issue concerning the internal market , but also as a public health matter for the whole EU .
What are the respective roles of alcohol policy and public health considerations in the Commission 's work ?
A Europe-wide policy on alcohol is not just an issue concerning the internal market . It also has important implications for public health .
If we had considered these aspects in their overall context , then it might have been easier to carry on a dialogue with Sweden .
May I thank Mr Andersson for the supplement to his first question and may I answer that question as follows ?
Firstly , Finland and Denmark are subject to exemptions to the basic rule of the free movement of goods until 2003 .
These countries are in the process of taking measures in preparation of free access of alcoholic products in the year 2003 .
However , in the case of Sweden , the situation is different .
In 1995 , a five-year derogation period was decided upon , which is now lapsing .
I have as yet not heard any arguments on the basis of which the Commission would need to extend this period .
Secondly , the Swedish Government is being consulted all the way .
Thirdly , I understand very well that the health aspect of this matter is naturally important .
I would repeat at this juncture what Professor Lindgren of Lund University has stated , namely that whatever happens in terms of import restrictions , the consumption of alcohol will remain the same .
The question is then , of course , where does the volume of alcohol originate from which is not imported by travellers ?
The answer is that this is smuggled into the country or made by the Swedes themselves , and as Mr Andersson knows , this is an extremely dangerous and unhealthy activity .
Well now , Mr Andersson seems to think that the health situation will improve if we restrict the import of alcohol .
But in that case , not only Sweden , but all EU countries , should then be subject to a total ban on alcohol .
We can cast our minds back to a similar situation in the United States .
Mr Andersson will be familiar with what was termed then ' prohibition ' .
He will also be aware of the effects the ban had on Mafia activity within the United States , where , eventually , prohibition was withdrawn .
All this means that we need to protect health , of course , but not by banning alcohol , because that does not work .
I gather that Mr Posselt has hinted at the fiscal aspects of this matter .
As is known , this has led to a state monopoly in Sweden which , in itself , is at odds with Union legislation .
Mr President , I listened with interest to the Commissioner 's reply about the need to apply the laws of the single market .
Can we now expect the European Commission to take action against the French Republic before the European Court of Justice ?
I should like to reply very briefly to the question raised by the honourable Member , since this matter is now under active consideration by the Commission .
The Commission has to take a decision on whether the matter is closed or whether it should refer it to the European Court of Justice .
My reply is perhaps not satisfactory right now , but I would like to assure the honourable Member that the Commission will take that decision within a matter of weeks .
I ask for the Member 's understanding for this small delay in the Commission 's decision .
Commissioner , do you have any reason , on public health grounds , for a difference in the taxation rates on , for example , Scotch whisky or French Bordeaux wine or even my colleague 's Bavarian beer ?
Can you envisage applying an alcohol - equivalent basis for taxation in Europe ?
The matter of excise taxes , to which the honourable Member is referring , is the prerogative of the Member State concerned .
The Commission has no instruments to enforce any particular decrease or increase in excise taxes on alcoholic products or on any other products .
Towards the end of this year the Commission will submit a report on the differences in excise taxes between Member States .
It will no doubt engage in a discussion both with Parliament and the Council on this state of affairs , which indicates that there are quite a lot of differences in excise rates between Member States .
For example - I believe the honourable Member referred to this - no excise taxes are applied on wine in France , whereas they are applied in the United Kingdom .
That leads to a distortion of the internal market because wine is smuggled from France to the United Kingdom .
The question specifically refers to the relation between excise taxes and the alcohol content of the goods subject to excise tax .
The Commission has no means of influence here .
In the case of Sweden , the instrument of excise taxes is indeed used to reduce the consumption of alcohol .
There is , of course , elasticity of demand , in this case a price elasticity of demand .
I am not sure exactly what it is , but it is not zero , therefore it must have some effect .
My question would have been almost exactly the one raised by Mr Purvis , but I would like to press the point further .
May I assure Mr MacCormick and other Members of this Parliament that the present situation where excise taxes differ between Member States is indeed something which is not conducive to the proper functioning of the internal market .
We need not restrict ourselves to alcoholic products .
That is indeed distortion of the internal market .
If I had my way , I would wave a magic wand and equalise excise taxes across Europe .
As a result , smuggling would no longer take place except if products were intrinsically more expensive in one Member State than another .
But I do not have a magic wand and I do not have my way .
This is an area of unanimity , as Mr MacCormick knows , and unless all Member States agree on the equalisation of excise taxes , it will not happen .
Once again , towards the end of this year , the Commission will forward a report on the state of affairs on excise taxes , and I am obviously available for any discussion with Parliament on that report .
Thank you very much , Commissioner .
Today we will take note of what you say and have a glass or two of Alsace wine , although we do not know how much tax is put on it , but I suppose it is a lot .
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed , Questions 55 to 114 will be replied to in writing .
That concludes Questions to the Commission .
( The sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m. )
Community policy in the field of water ( continuation )
The next item is the continuation of the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the Community action in the field of water policy .
To this we must add the water pollution problems which afflict the potential new Member States in the East .
In fact , a reservoir containing cyanide has just burst its banks in Romania , threatening aquifers which supply the population of Yugoslavia .
I understand that Mrs Wallstrm , whose presence here tonight I appreciate , is going to visit the area .
The development of this directive has been difficult and complex , involving diverse interests and divided opinions .
I have no doubt that the rapporteur for this legislature , Mrs Lienemann , has made great efforts and shown great dedication in reconciling positions , and has succeeded to a large extent .
However , it is almost impossible to understand and correctly assess all the different situations and expectations .
I come from a country whose southern half is on the Mediterranean and the availability of water historically depends on the whims of an unpredictable climate and a difficult terrain .
The Mediterranean region has had to fight for its development by trying to overcome this adversity , century after century , year after year , day after day , and is still doing so today .
We also reject the amendments which aim to incorporate the integral cost of water for 2010 .
I would lastly like to refer to the amendments on dangerous substances which establish that we must achieve a zero , or close to zero , degree of pollution .
In no field of human activity have we ever discovered a zero degree of pollution .
We will be doing a general disservice to the objectives of this important directive if we are not able to provide it with the necessary flexibility and adaptability to guarantee compliance with its provisions .
Mr President , Commissioner , this is a very important directive .
Its aim is to improve the quality of water and the reliability of the water supply and sewage systems .
The public must have a right to clean water .
It is important not only for the environment but also for public health .
I am not speaking so much for myself , as I happen to be one of those few lucky people in Europe who can drink water directly from their own lake at home .
We must make sure that we get started quickly with the programme to improve water quality .
Action must get under way immediately .
We cannot afford to waste time .
It is important that the timetable is an ambitious one .
It is a question of doing what is technically possible ; obviously it is not possible to do anymore , but we must be sufficiently ambitious .
I would like to comment on one issue , which was spoken about earlier .
I believe the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy has restricted too tightly the debate on the transfer of water .
Mr President , Madam Commissioner , congratulations , Mrs Lienemann on an excellent piece of work .
Water and air surround us everywhere .
We share them with everyone on this earth .
Water is a prerequisite for human life . And there are more and more of us in the world .
Mrs Schleicher intimated earlier today that clean water was an unrealistic goal .
Nothing could be further from the truth !
It is unrealistic to go on causing the quality of our water to deteriorate and so , too , the conditions for life .
It is especially unrealistic in regard to agriculture which is most dependent upon a clean natural environment and unpolluted resources .
I would therefore appeal to Members of Parliament to appreciate that tough demands for a clean environment are a sign of long-term realism of the highest order .
Mr President , we - myself included - support the report by Mrs Lienemann , the targets it sets and the directive under discussion .
However , we should look a little more closely at some points .
I therefore think that regardless of whether we finally conclude who should decide whether such diversions take place , the specifications common to us all must be very stringent .
I think such projects ought to be eligible for funding , because , at the end of the day , that restoration may well prove to be a first-rate development policy .
Mr President , here we have what is basically a good measure .
It sets out achievable standards based on subsidiarity principles and the water basin management .
Its aim of good-quality water for drinking , for wildlife , the environment and economic purposes is right .
The prevention of pollution and water deterioration has to be right as well as the ability to manage water in times of drought and flood .
We have three outstanding problems .
The first is the transfer of water between basin areas .
That is a matter which affects my colleagues from Spain , Ireland and the United Kingdom .
Secondly , we have to have realistic targets , but targets nevertheless .
Looking at Amendment No 7 , for example , which calls for the complete elimination of naturally occurring substances , you can see that some of the targets set are unrealistic .
Also , some of the targets which are set at close to zero - in English , that is quite a meaningless term .
We need to look very carefully at those .
The concept of continuing reduction as in Amendment No 58 is much better .
Thirdly , I raise the problem faced by Scotch whisky .
Scotch whisky - especially malt whisky , which is the best - requires water extraction which is used in some quantity and then returned to the water stream .
Some of it ends up in the bottle and is drunk .
That is my third request - that we look carefully at these measures before passing this measure as a whole .
In that spirit , we support Amendment No 107 by Mr Marset Campos .
River waters must also be used more effectively so as to preserve life in areas that suffer chronic drought .
Its purpose is to preserve a semi-transparent field of action , which during the directive ' s first implementation period will allow critical choices to be finalised to the benefit of big business .
Mr President , first and foremost , I want to say that protection of the aquatic environment , both surface water and groundwater , is probably one of our most important duties of all .
We are all entitled to clean drinking water .
I should like to express my great appreciation of Mrs Lienemann ' s work on this matter .
It has been a huge task , and I should like to express my support for all of Mrs Lienemann ' s amendments . These are all improvements to the common position .
Moreover , I shall only highlight the most important ones .
First and foremost , I think it is important that we should establish some clear objectives concerning the condition we should have achieved for our water within a period of no more than 10 years .
I also think it is important that we should put pressure on the Member States to devise the necessary action programmes more quickly than is proposed in the common position .
In this regard , too , I think that the 2010 deadline is appropriate .
If this cannot be adopted as the objective , then I am naturally prepared to support the proposal to the effect that we should have achieved levels very close to zero by the year 2020 .
I think that Mrs Lienemann ' s proposal is a good basis for further negotiations with the Council .
Mr President , I would like to thank the rapporteur for some excellent work in drafting this important directive .
First of all we have to find and call to account those who are guilty of the act .
The cyanide and heavy metals in the rivers are gruesome examples of how environmental negligence may ruin the waterways for decades to come .
The event proves that in some countries applying for EU membership the environmental norms and environmental thinking are still light years behind the EU .
The Union ought to reassess how aid for environmental projects can be allocated in a better way in support of a sustainable policy on water .
In Finland surface waters are very clean .
The production of so-called artificial groundwater is an ecological means of filtering a clean supply of fresh surface water through to the groundwater reserves .
The process does not require a chemical sewage plant .
The directive must not be allowed to endanger this work .
Deviating from the Council ' s common position , the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy is also attempting to restrict further the facilities for the transfer of water .
This would cause problems for those countries where reserves of water are unevenly distributed .
The ecologically sustainable transfer of water must not be restricted by Union acts .
The work should , of course , be regulated and subject to license in the future too , but the same rules cannot apply to , for example , Finland and Greece , which suffers from drought .
Mr President , Commissioner , water is a precious natural asset , a vital necessity , and it is our duty to protect it .
I must say , however , that , there are discrepancies between the countries in the north and south concerning water , and that is why the matter cannot be dealt with in the same way .
There are parts of Europe with an inherent shortage of water , and that should be taken into account by this directive .
In recent years , climate change has compelled Mediterranean countries to face serious problems of flooding or lack of rain .
We agree with the common position but we also accept several of the amendments tabled , whose aim is to improve it .
However , we cannot accept amendments such as those that refer to the issue of costing water , granted that in my country a high proportion of the users are farmers .
In addition , amendments which ban the transfer of water from one hydrological basin to another would condemn many areas in my country to water shortage .
The issue of eliminating hazardous substances ought , I think , to be made more realistic so that we can achieve it .
In spite of these remarks however , I believe our common objective of sustainable use of water resources can be maintained .
However , it is also extremely important to me to point something out that many people actually take for granted .
I would still like to highlight this point though : this directive does not constitute any kind of legal basis for diverting water from a Member State ' s territory against its will .
I am aware , and the previous speaker highlighted this , that there are States in the European Union that have problems with water .
I believe that every one of us , in every country , could improve the way in which we manage our water and could make use of it in a cleaner way .
This applies to every country .
Mr President , Commissioner , we should be pleased that this directive has already reached second reading .
However , I must say that I am not over-pleased because I believe that this directive is not of great quality , it is going to be very difficult to implement and has many shortcomings .
Firstly , I believe that this directive is excessively tough , simplistic and reductionist .
I say this because the ball does not need to be in our court . This issue is in the hands of the governments and the Commission .
In the same way , this damage and these tragedies which are happening , as in Romania , are not the problem of the legislative , but of the executive and of the governments .
Furthermore , it is not a fair directive because it ignores the large uninhabited areas , climatic diversity , desert areas and arid areas .
That is how the common position has been worded .
The same can be said with regard to transfers .
Transfers are an example of the distribution of wealth , of solidarity between peoples and territories , because unfortunately the Earth is not perfect and some areas have more and some have less .
Lastly , I am highly critical of the fact that the directive is not accompanied by a study of its impact .
Some kind of study has been done which has not even been read , and I believe we should carry out impact studies by way of good political practice , rather than just laying down doctrine .
Mr President , through the consolidation of existing directives this framework directive establishes the basic principle of a sustainable water policy in the European Union .
Ireland is very supportive of the common position and many of the European Parliament amendments .
A 25-year roll-out for legislation , for example , is hardly acceptable .
We have no difficulty with the " polluter pays " principle in relation to the recovery of costs on water usage at industrial , commercial and agricultural level .
We must of course pay for wastage and luxury use at domestic level and the recovery of costs can be balanced accordingly .
The introduction of water meters is viewed with great suspicion in Ireland where we have had no domestic water charges and hence no meters since 1977 .
Meters could be viewed as a very important tool in water management by the new river basin districts , to help the elimination of water wastage and for the proper planning of future requirements .
The whole purpose of this directive is to promote sustainable use of water in the EU .
Water is a scarce and precious natural resource .
Ideally , I would like Amendment No 45 to fall tomorrow so that the common position on Article 9 would hold on water charges .
All legislation must be enforceable and be based on the general principle of political acceptance .
I believe that access to clean drinking water without charge is a basic human right in the developed as well as the developing world .
These include , for example , costs and transfers .
With regard to costs , I would like clarification of what costs we are talking about .
Are we talking about the distribution and sourcing of water ?
Are we talking about the quality of the distribution networks ?
Are we talking about the nature of the works required to provide water services ?
Or are we talking about large-scale hydraulic works and reservoirs ?
All these costs added together would be horrendous and would have repercussions for the agricultural sector .
Transfers are defined as the transfer of surface water between different territorial areas .
Is the Commissioner aware that our country has one of the oldest systems of transfers in Europe ?
They already existed in ancient times : they had them in Roman times , although on a smaller scale .
One of the most significant transfers - the Tajo-Segura transfer - which has been in use for many years , almost 30 years , has an allowance of 658 hm3 per year .
The largest volume transferred in one year has been 453 and the average volume over twenty years has been over 200 .
We cannot be accused of bad management .
We are not doing a bad job of management .
We cannot be prohibited from carrying out transfers when our economy and the development of our regions depend on it .
I will not tackle the issue of quality and the best available technologies , because I believe that we will return to a discussion of this directive .
Take good note : in this diverse Europe , which we are building in a spirit of mutual cooperation , we have to find diverse solutions , not single solutions .
I therefore appeal to the common sense of the Commission , the Council and this House so that , when voting , they do not impose uniformity on the different countries of Europe in areas where subsidiarity is required .
Commissioner , Andalusia is not Lapland .
.
Water is one of our most important natural resources , as many speakers have already said .
An ambitious and well-balanced European policy in the field of water is an important component of guaranteed sustainable development for Europe .
Water is also one of the issues to which I shall be devoting particular attention during my term of office .
I am pleased about the spirit of agreement which permeates the amendments that have been submitted to Parliament .
Many of them are based upon the very constructive , informal discussions which have taken place between Parliament and the Council in connection with the first reading .
Most of Parliament ' s proposed amendments help improve the text and make it more ambitious .
The Commission can approve 72 of the 108 amendments , either in their entirety , partially or in principle .
Many of the amendments which Parliament has submitted show that reconciliation will be necessary .
With a view to these forthcoming negotiations , I would therefore urge Parliament to vote in favour of an ambitious position .
Firstly , I should like to mention some of my most important arguments .
We now have the opportunity to put into practice those measures to which we agreed under the OSPAR Convention .
Rather than make these objectives legally binding , we must consider their political nature . This is also reflected in many of Parliament ' s amendments .
Where water charges are concerned , the present directive will constitute Europe ' s water policy for the next three decades .
It is only by means of efficient instruments of control that we can arrive at a situation in which water is better managed and more carefully husbanded as a resource .
In the course of the debate , many speakers have pointed out how important it is to consult the general public and keep them informed .
I just want to emphasise this further .
It is absolutely crucial that we involve the general public by keeping them well informed and by proceeding to consult them . This is also expressed in Recital 14 .
Allow me also to say to Mr Bowe that , in common with my Scottish colleague , he need have no pangs of conscience about continuing to enjoy a glass of Scotch whisky now and again .
We have not considered it necessary for the Commission to regulate the very limited abstraction of water for whisky production .
Allow me now to comment on some of the areas in a little more detail .
Limiting discharges of hazardous substances into our waters must be one of the most important objectives .
I am glad to see that Parliament ' s amendments have focused upon this .
The Commission fully supports the proposal to introduce the commitments under the OSPAR Convention into the text .
We must , however , keep to their precise scope and content .
As I said , their purpose and the timetable for implementing them are political in character .
It would not be in keeping with this to introduce a legally binding timetable .
It must nonetheless be guaranteed that the Member States and the Community are compelled to take measures to achieve the relevant goals and comply with the timetables .
I therefore welcome Amendments Nos 6 , 10 , 14 , 24 , 58 , 60 and 88 .
The Commission cannot , on the other hand , approve Amendment No 19 , in which hazardous substances are defined differently than in OSPAR .
The Commission ' s proposal introduces a clear procedure for selecting substances , and so no definition is needed .
Even if I too agree with the contents of Amendments Nos 79 and 106 , these go beyond the commitments under OSPAR , and I cannot therefore approve these Amendments .
The Commission can also , in principle , approve Amendment No 60 , according to which a timetable is required for implementing the Commission ' s proposal to limit discharges of prioritised substances .
Amendment No 59 introduces requirements to the effect that the list of prioritised substances should continually be reviewed .
This would involve legal uncertainty as to the status of the list and cannot , therefore , be approved .
The desire expressed in Amendments Nos 60 and 93 for a list of goals and a list of substances for which no adequate data is available cannot be approved .
Lists of this kind would not have clear legal status and do not fit in with the procedures for adopting the list of prioritised substances .
I would point out in this regard that the OSPAR Convention does not in any way alter existing Community legislation concerning nitrates from the agricultural sector .
The Nitrates Directive will not therefore be influenced by the present framework directive .
I appreciate the fact that Parliament has proved to be flexible over the very sensitive and difficult question of imposing charges for water services .
I can wholeheartedly support the demand that the price of water should be set at a level which creates incentives to use water resources in a sustainable way .
I also support the demand for a suitable contribution from each sector to cover own costs . I can therefore partly , and in principle , approve Amendments Nos 43-46 , together with Amendment No 85 .
I believe that we need legally binding requirements stating that the financial costs of water services are to be covered by each economic sector .
This would constitute a clear goal against which progress could be measured .
I therefore support the overall thrust of Amendment No 105 , which is in line with the Commission ' s original proposal .
I also support a gradual development in the direction of covering environmental costs and the costs of resources .
We are aware of the fact that the price of water and water services is a complicated issue and that account must be taken not only of environmental goals but also of social and economic goals .
This must not , however , be an excuse for subsidising inefficient economic sectors which cause pollution .
We intend shortly to issue a communication from the Commission on precisely this question .
I agree with Parliament that the common position ' s sixteen-year timeframe for implementing these measures must be considerably reduced .
The same also applies to the possibility which exists of extending the period of implementation by a further eighteen years .
Amendment No 28 , cancelling the third extension period , is an important step in the right direction . This proposal can therefore be approved .
A period of ten years , as proposed in Amendments Nos 24 and 26 , among others , is , on the other hand , too short .
The proposal must also include more stringent criteria for establishing lesser environmental objectives and for extending deadlines in connection with heavily modified or artificial bodies of water .
This applies to Amendments Nos 6 , 24 , 25 , 27 , 30 , 31 , 32 , 33 , 34 , 78 , 80 , 102 and 104 .
These Amendments may in large part be approved and will be supported until such time as an overall solution can be found .
To comply with the demands in Amendments Nos 27 and 29 , to the effect that the Commission should approve every extension , would be going too far , and these cannot be approved .
Another important area is protection of the groundwater .
We need both a starting point and a final goal if we are to reverse the upward trend in pollution .
We also need stricter criteria for interpreting the results of any monitoring .
The most important parts of Parliament ' s Amendments Nos 25 and 73 can therefore be approved in principle .
The new definition in Amendment No 72 is , however , too strict and cannot be applied for this purpose .
I would propose that Amendment No 92 should be incorporated into a broader solution .
Amendment No 71 does not take account of seasonal variations and annual changes in the level of the groundwater .
The proposal cannot therefore be approved .
The Commission considers it unrealistic and unnecessary to lay down standards guaranteeing that the least intensive water purification is adequate to ensure that surface water is of drinking water quality .
Instead , we prefer an addition to those measures which are required in accordance with Article 11 to promote activities in this area .
The good status which is required under this proposal ought to guarantee that the demand for surface water of good quality is fulfilled .
This part of Amendment No 41 cannot , therefore , be approved .
The Commission appreciates Parliament ' s efforts to guarantee that the so-called combined approach is given a central role .
This approach and its scope , which the Commission can in principle approve , are defined by Amendments Nos 22 and 47 .
In order to achieve the greatest possible legal clarity and proportionality , we wish , however , to reformulate Amendment No 47 and to add a de minimis provision .
The transfer of water is already covered by controls , but explicitly mentioning it makes the text clearer .
These parts of Amendments Nos 49 and 87 can , therefore , be approved .
It is nonetheless unnecessary to make it a condition that all the measures for controlling demand should be adopted .
The proposal already specifies that water must be abstracted in accordance with the ecological needs in the river basin district concerned .
These parts of Amendments Nos 49 and 87 cannot , therefore , be approved .
The Commission approves Amendment No 76 to the effect that radioactive substances are explicitly to be included in the proposal .
To summarise , the Commission is able to approve 72 amendments , either in their entirety , partially or in principle .
Finally , I want to say that I welcome the efforts which Parliament has made to try to solve the questions on which the Council takes other views .
Important progress has been made , and the constructive tone of the discussions creates a good working climate for future discussions .
A number of obstacles remain , but I am convinced that , as the legislative work progresses , we shall achieve our common goal of creating a water policy we can be proud of .
Parliament ' s adopting a clear position will be an important contribution to an ambitious , European water policy for the next three decades .
I would like to hear the Commissioner 's view on Amendment No 45 .
I may have missed it in the list she gave out .
. I accept that .
Thank you , Mrs Wallstrm .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 p.m.
Financial instrument for the environment ( LIFE )
Despite the enlargement which has already taken place , when we renewed the first LIFE programme to move on to the second , despite enlargement , the level of appropriations remained the same .
It must also be mentioned that this budget experiences a rate of consumption of appropriations which is quite exceptional within the Community budget .
Patently we have here an instrument that is appropriate for the policies which we wish to implement .
I would stress the LIFE-NATURE strand in particular .
We are well aware that , in the European Union , a whole raft of directives such as the directive on habitats and the directive on migratory birds encounter problems in implementation .
With LIFE-NATURE we should be able to support policies which demonstrate the feasibility , the validity of the objectives of these directives , and their capacity to be implemented .
And , for want of appropriations , we lose this legitimacy and allow the idea that these European directives of ours are not reasonable and are not applicable to develop .
But we have these comitology debates with regard to most of the European Union ' s financial programmes and instruments .
Let me point out that Parliament is asking for 850 million ecus in appropriations , not a vast sum in the Community budget , and that the current proposals are for 613 million ecus .
I feel , at any rate , that for the ultimate application of LIFE , at least , there would be some way for the Union to make a significant budgetary gesture in favour of the environment .
Let me conclude with the matter of our institutions ' way of working .
I would , however , like to point out that the Council has plenty of time to formulate its ideas and that it is submitting its proposals to us only a few months before the fateful date .
As for us , we our bound by the terms of the texts : a maximum of four months .
Mr President , it is true that we are in open disagreement on some of the choices made by the Council and the Commission , and I will refer to this later on .
It is equally true , however , that we should begin by saying that this regulation is better than those covering LIFE I and LIFE II .
Thirdly , the fact that the common position has for the first time introduced upgrading and planning for coastal areas as one of LIFE-Environment ' s priorities is an extremely positive step .
In spite of all its virtues though , LIFE III ' s regulation fails in what is obviously the most important aspect of determining a financial instrument ' s impact , which is its budget .
We have four very straightforward arguments which we feel justify our choice .
Firstly , LIFE is the only direct financial instrument which is designed to promote environmental policy within the European Union .
There is no other such policy .
Secondly , LIFE is an instrument that has already produced good results , and has enabled innovative methods and techniques to be developed and has an excellent rate of implementation .
Thirdly , the LIFE budget has been reduced in real terms has not kept up with the enormous dynamism and creativity of demand .
Our concern does not centre purely on the budgetary issue , however .
Climate change and water policy are subjects that are of great concern to the European public and which have deserved considerable attention from this House .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , LIFE is the European Union ' s most important instrument and indeed its only financial instrument dedicated exclusively to the environment .
That explains why this instrument must live up to our ambitions , ambitions for which , of course , there is a price .
Obviously , the basic item for discussion with the Council will be the allocation for LIFE III . The common position stipulates a total appropriation of EUR 613 million for the period 2000-2004 .
This is not enough . The Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party is in favour of increasing this amount to EUR 850 million .
The amount that we are asking for is no great mountain of useless expenditure .
Quite the opposite , it is still fairly modest in relation to the requirements to be funded .
A drop in the ocean , I might say , in comparison with Europe ' s structural policies .
More than one third of the 8,500 requests received meet the required conditions and it has been possible to cofinance approximately 1,300 projects between 1992 and 1998 .
A success which Parliament wishes and intends to see perpetuated , and this is why we also support amendment 14 outlining the fourth phase of the LIFE project .
In matters of the environment , investment and ambition come in a variety of forms , and indeed must come in a variety of forms in the long term .
This is the price of the future of generations to come .
I shall therefore reiterate that , as the rapporteur has already said quite clearly , LIFE is the only specific financial instrument for the implementation of the European Union ' s policy on the environment .
This instrument is absolutely essential since it provides the impetus for truly innovative actions in favour of nature and the environment in Europe , which are adopted and expanded upon by the Member States .
This financial instrument is , furthermore , deliberately democratic since it is accessible to both governmental and non-governmental organisations .
That is why , ladies and gentlemen , I would urge you not to vote in favour of the amendments which have no appreciation of the spirit of LIFE .
Through the associations , then , LIFE is a facility that can be used by the European citizen directly , and for the benefit of actions in the interest of the community .
Several million NGO members - millions , I say - recognise in LIFE the Union ' s determination to build up an ambitious policy in favour of our natural heritage .
I should like to say that those who run down this policy in their own States bear the responsibility for obstructing European nature conservation policies .
Let us not forget that , to date , LIFE amounts to only EUR 100 million per annum , i.e. scarcely 0.1 % of the budget of the European Union .
For the record , the budget for agriculture , which has a real impact on the environment , amounts , as we all know , to EUR 37 billion .
The first sustainable development projects are unquestionably those .
Mr President , the European Union environmental programme , to which a considerable amount ( EUR 613 million ) has been allocated , gives rise to many questions regarding the proper use of public funds .
We are therefore proposing to amend the regulations as follows .
Firstly , to reserve the acquisitions made thanks to LIFE funds exclusively to public bodies , subsequently , following invitation to tender , to entrust the management of these sites to authorised nature conservation associations .
It is a question of the continuity of the ownership of the acquisitions , since private law associations may disappear or resell acquisitions .
It is shocking in philosophical terms and dubious in legal terms for 100 % public money to be used to build up a heritage of private land ownership , even under cover of environmental protection .
Secondly , to define the criteria for the eligibility and allocation of LIFE funds , in order to rule our any suspicions of clientelism or ostracism .
Thirdly , to make prior coordination with the users and communities concerned a prerequisite .
Result : a court action and repair costs greater than the cost of the programme itself .
This is the sort of thing that we want to avoid .
Four , to include representatives of Parliament in the monitoring committee , at least one Member per political group .
What could be fairer than for Members of Parliament to monitor the use of the appropriations they voted for ?
Fifthly , to publish an annual scientific , technical and financial assessment of LIFE operations carried out .
Six , to carry out proper evaluation of the programmes on a regular basis .
Furthermore , it contains more acceptable systematics and is clearer and more transparent .
I would also like to congratulate the services of the Commission , since the evaluation , control and monitoring of the LIFE programme provide a reasonable guarantee with regard to the selection and execution of projects .
However , I would like to insist on certain points .
Firstly , its continuity , which , in principle , I am not questioning .
Secondly , the financial contributions .
Sadly , only 7.2 % of the projects requested receive funds .
Of the EUR 1 919 million requested , only EUR 784 million have been granted .
Now the financial statement shows only EUR 613 million to cover more countries and competences .
Parliament has proposed EUR 850 million , but the document repeats the initial proposal of EUR 613 million .
Commissioner , our environmental commitments are increasing in all areas , while the only financial instrument exclusively dedicated to the environment is decreasing .
Is this not a contradiction ?
Let us not demand from others what we are not prepared to give ourselves ?
Commissioner , we must be consistent .
Mr President , LIFE has been the principal instrument available to the Community since 1992 for supporting and developing environmental policy , both within the Community and in the surrounding third countries .
On the basis of the experience gained over the past eight years , an attempt is being made to increase the effectiveness of action on behalf of the environment in the third development phase of that financial instrument .
In the second , LIFE-Environment strand , which is more concerned with projects involving small and medium-sized enterprises and local government agencies , the incorporation of the environment in other policies is expressed very clearly indeed .
As regards the financing package for the implementation of LIFE over the next five years , I wholeheartedly support the increase from EUR 613 million to EUR 850 million proposed by the rapporteur , Mrs Lienemann .
Besides , we cannot remain indifferent towards the increased challenges in areas around the Union or towards addressing very acute environmental protection problems in the applicant countries .
What has happened over the past few days with the pollution of the Danube and its tributary has been instructive .
Mr President , I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Lienemann on her sensitive approach towards the environment , ably demonstrated in the two reports we have discussed this evening .
Two minutes is certainly not long enough to deal with such an important topic .
So I will simply appeal to the Commissioner to undertake full responsibility for such an important issue .
For five years , I have been the representative of the Committee on the Environment in a regional organisation , which assuredly does not have Parliament ' s broad perspective .
The environment is in a parlous state .
Like a number of previous speakers , I , too , wish to consider the economic problem and the problem of finding funding for projects , which , in my view , should be incorporated into the pubic domain .
As regards funding , EUR 613 million is not enough .
Even EUR 850 million is not enough .
However , the environment constitutes a far bigger and more serious problem than smoking .
EUR 850 million - assuming that such a figure is actually agreed - believe me , is not enough , in practical terms , to allow any type of project to be carried out .
In many areas the parks which are a fundamental element in the LIFE programme have been established .
But creating parks with very limited financial resources , without any system of signs is inefficient and ineffectual .
I would therefore ask Parliament and the Commission to give the matter their full attention .
I would again thank the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy and Mrs Lienemann for the good and constructive co-operation we have had on this matter .
As a result of this , I can confirm that the Commission wholly or in principle approves nine of the fourteen amendments which have been adopted by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy .
The Commission welcomes , above all , Amendments Nos 1 , 2 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 and 13 , which apply to the Committee procedures .
In these cases , Parliament has fully taken account of the objections which the Commission had to the common position .
The Commission can , in principle , also approve Amendment No 4 which ought , however , to be introduced into another place in the text .
The Commission nonetheless considers that , if this is stated separately , then that is to go against the original decision to have the proposal focus on just a few priority areas .
There is also a risk of overlap with other Community programmes such as the Fifth Framework Programme for Research , Technical Development and Demonstration .
The present programme ' s key measures - water quality , tomorrow ' s city and innovative products and processes - to a certain degree cover the same questions .
Where the question of the budget is concerned , I am pleased about the confidence shown by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy .
Amendment No 12 requires a larger budget than that stated in the common position .
I am also convinced that LIFE has great potential .
This instrument could finance good projects with a higher amount of money than that quoted in the proposed budget .
The amount quoted in Amendment No 12 does not , however , tally with the budget set on the basis of Agenda 2000 .
Allow me also to add that , if the budget is increased , greater demands are obviously going to be made upon the Directorate-General for the Environment if an increased number of projects are going to be dealt with .
Account will also have to be taken of other programmes where decisions are to be made within the framework of the joint decision-making procedure .
At this stage , the Commission is keeping to the amount which has been set in the common position .
If other sources of finance were to be investigated for each project , more resources would , moreover , be required than are available in the present situation .
Nor can the Commission approve Amendment No 14 , which is contrary to the Commission ' s right of initiative .
With regard to the discussion concerning the deadline , I want to say that the final date for beginning to implement LIFE - 31 March 2000 , as set in the common position - must now be moved forward .
The date will be fixed as soon as the present regulation has been adopted .
Finally , I want to repeat that I am convinced that LIFE will be an effective instrument in support of development and the implementation of the Community ' s environmental policy .
Parliament has contributed greatly to improving this instrument .
Thank you , Mrs Wallstrm .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Modernising social protection
Mr President , the issue of social security systems is an important one .
This is a natural consequence of cooperation within the EU . The basis is monetary cooperation , which has since been followed up by macro-economic cooperation and cooperation on employment policy .
It is now a natural consequence to move on to social security systems .
These areas are mutually dependent upon one another .
Economic stability is a reason for growth and can provide high employment . It also provides the opportunity to develop welfare provision .
But the reverse is also the case : a well-developed policy on social security can contribute to high employment and to increased growth .
In other words , social security is a factor of production .
Social security systems differ from one EU country to another . This is largely due to historical factors .
The labour market is also changing . Women are venturing into the labour market in ever greater numbers .
Another challenge is presented by technical development .
We must meet these challenges together .
The Commission ' s communication recommends that experience should be more widely shared , a high-level group formed and benchmarking introduced .
What is more , the report on social security should be published annually and examined in conjunction with the report on employment .
This is good , but it is not enough .
We propose a procedure like the Luxembourg process . Clear guidelines and indicators are required .
At the same time , the Member States are to formulate the relevant methods in national action plans .
We are creating a common model , but retaining the principle of subsidiarity .
This social convergence is a process which will continue for a long period .
Like the work on employment , the Commission ' s proposal is founded upon four pillars .
These are : to make the systems employment-friendly ; to make the pensions systems sustainable in the long term ; to promote social integration ; and to guarantee sustainable , high-quality health and medical care .
All this is important .
In our report , we have highlighted the importance of combating poverty within the EU and of finding indicators as soon as possible so that we can make progress in this area .
Equality has no pillar of its own . There , it is mainstreaming which applies .
All four pillars should reflect aspects of equality .
This is something we have borne in mind .
These proposals favour women especially .
We expect the Commission to present this as part of its proposal for a social action programme .
Social convergence is also needed before the enlargement of the Union , partly in order to strengthen the social model and partly to combat the risk of social dumping .
The Commission ought to consider devising a special action programme concerning social policy in connection with enlargement .
We have had a constructive discussion in the Committee .
We had a lot of amendments , but succeeded in agreeing upon a report .
Now , the amendments which are to be voted on at the plenary sitting have been reduced in number to only fifteen . This indicates that we have a broad consensus .
A number of these amendments have come back from the Committee reading , and these I shall reject .
I shall also reject those amendments which have been tabled by the Technical Group of Independent Members , because I do not think that these add anything to the report .
On the other hand , my group will applaud Amendment No 14 from the group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party . I think this proposal is a good one .
Certainly , it resembles Amendment No 1 , but Amendment No 14 is better .
Finally , I want to say that the EU is not only concerned with cooperation on trade . The EU is also a union for employment and social justice .
In creating a citizens ' Europe , social policy has an important role to play .
By means of this report , Parliament wishes to make its contribution to reinforcing the social dimension of European society .
We hope that the Council and the Commission will take this contribution seriously and include it in future social policy .
The Lisbon Summit will provide an excellent opportunity to present a strategy of this kind .
Mr President , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur , Mr Andersson , very warmly on his report on modernising social protection which is now under discussion .
I am also delighted that he based the report on a report which was written by myself as rapporteur under the previous Parliament and has partly followed the gist of this old report .
Key sub-goals are : promoting employment and ensuring that work secures a fixed income ; secondly , safeguarding old-age pensions and making these affordable ; thirdly , promoting social integration and fourthly , guaranteeing affordable , first-rate health protection .
Gender-related aspects must feature prominently in all these goals .
The Commission ' s communication is an important strategic document for bringing about European social convergence .
Macro-economic policy , employment policy and social policy all affect each other and this is why they should be brought more closely together .
The Commission has recognised this interrelatedness .
It is our intention to bring about an integrated social strategy which is , of course , underpinned by a sound macro-economic strategy and a sound employment strategy .
These aspects are very much interconnected .
It is , therefore , surprising that this topic has , to date , not been incorporated in a strategy and this is why the Commission ' s notification constitutes a break-through in a way .
It brings me great joy to witness that the Council now seems to accept this break-through and also wants to bring it to the fore in Lisbon .
We should , of course , not get overly excited about it .
It marks the beginning , rather than the end , of a process .
Some people have wondered whether our demands are too low or whether there should be more dialogue .
But it is extremely significant for the process to be set in motion .
The issues involved are extremely important but the systems in the European Union are quite different from one another .
The challenges are different . The levels of employment are different and this is why it is very important to set the ball rolling gently but to make steady progress nonetheless .
In this way , we will be able to meet a number of huge challenges .
The majority within my group is of the opinion that something like this needs to happen .
The funny thing about the Andersson report is that it does not get bogged down with too many details of how everything should take shape ; from this perspective it is not a pie-in-the-sky report .
It is a report which tries to give direction .
There are , however , one or two aspects about which I have doubts as to whether or not we are being too specific .
I think that a number of MEPs will make reference to this .
I believe that if it were to be adopted in Lisbon in this way , Lisbon will turn out to be a success .
If it is not adopted , Lisbon will not add much to what has already been said in the past .
All in all , I am indebted to the rapporteur and the Committee for this report .
I hope that Europe , in terms of social protection , will make a step forward , taking into account subsidiarity , for without subsidiarity , this would not be possible .
Commissioner , the fact that this report is no longer controversial within Parliament does not mean that it has lost any of its crucial importance .
There have been times within this Parliament when such discussions on social security were actually quite awkward .
Within my group , it speaks for itself that social protection forms an important part of this social cohesion and should thus also be added to the agenda in Lisbon .
However , we , the Parliament and , in particular , the group of the Social Democrats , want Lisbon to go one step further now .
We believe that this course of action is ambitious , yet achievable .
Needless to say , it is clear that harmonisation of social security is not viable at European level .
But this new course of action is very exciting .
I am pleased about the fact that the European Parliament supports my group ' s idea and we hope , Commissioner , that we can also count on your support .
Finally , we urge the European Parliament , both sides of industry and social NGOs to be closely involved in this process .
The success of this strategy hinges on a broad and democratic base and we hope that we can count on your support .
These are four goals which have been worded in such broad terms that everyone must be able to support them .
We now already have major social problems and major social costs to find from the public budgets , which is a problem for many Member States .
If reforms are not got under way , we are in danger of eroding the economic basis of social policy , and a strong and competitive economy is now undoubtedly the most secure basis for effective social security .
It is therefore only reasonable to put these subjects on the agenda .
In the debate about coordination of social policy in the EU , we often use the expression social convergence .
As liberals , we can support this concept when it means that we in the EU are to establish broad common objectives with which the individual countries then seek to comply by means of their own national social policies .
It is not , therefore , about harmonisation but about common objectives .
It is , of course , a fact that the EU countries have different ways of organising social policy .
It is therefore important to emphasise that social policy is a national concern .
National policy is , of course , subject to a number of common parameters . That is the case with minimum social entitlements , which are established by treaty .
So coordination and cooperation are facts of life . But convergence should be about goals , not means .
I should also like to thank the rapporteur , Jan Andersson , for his report and for his very constructive contribution to the attempt to reconcile different positions and to secure support for his report .
I can support the report , but there are a few points which are not completely to my taste .
Dialogue and the coordination of social policy are to be commended , but we should not lump all nations together as if they were the same . There should be room for a multiplicity of solutions .
I feel positive about the movement which is very gradually taking place in the dossier .
This seems to be a good thing and useful .
I also feel positive about the essence of the communication , namely the strategic approach .
We therefore hope that the four objectives which are mentioned in it can reasonably be achieved .
We would also underline the importance of the way in which the strategy is handled .
We nonetheless foresee two problems for which solutions will need to be found .
The first problem is that concerning the downward adjustment of social security , which , we hope , will be replaced by high-level convergence .
I can illustrate this with examples from a study which was carried out recently by the Dutch trade union movement into social security reforms within the European Union .
It appears from this study that adjustments are rife but most of these adjustments , in fact , the majority of them , appear to be downward adjustments , the remainder being improvements .
The lion ' s share of these adjustments pertains to pension plans : eleven restrictions and two improvements .
In the case of unemployment benefits , we came across six restrictions and five improvements .
The reasons for adjustments are , for example , to improve employment , reduce social security expenditure , but are also due to policy competition and EMU criteria .
Policy competition mainly occurs in the northern countries .
The highest level of stability and even improvement of social security can be found in the southern countries .
All in all , both sides of industry only have a limited role to play in the process as a whole .
This is nothing to write home about and means that the convergence strategy must focus on the best approaches .
To use a figure of speech , cappuccino is not always good for us .
The European Union ' s policy encompasses social policy in addition to economic and employment policy .
So far , social policy has remained limited in terms of set-up and resources .
But under the influence of the free movement of employees , of the internal market and of the euro , the labour markets are actually beginning to become integrated .
This has undeniable repercussions on social protection which is tied in with labour to a large extent .
In fact , the same phenomenon occurs in tax law .
In order to combat distortion of competition and prevent dumping , the Commission has , in my opinion , developed a well-balanced approach which steers a midcourse between harmonisation and non-intervention .
On the one hand , binding and enforceable rules apply to equal pay or additional old-age pensions and on the other hand , programmes are used to offer incentives with regard to non-discrimination or social exclusion .
Based on a number of recommendations , reports and communications , the Commission has made another step in the convergence process by setting out objectives and by setting up a working party of high-ranking officials .
Indeed , expansion , globalisation , a sharp increase in the ageing population , individualisation and changes in family situations render such reorganisation inevitable .
Denying that such shifts take place is tantamount to surrendering social protection .
With regard to eurosceptics and nationalists , I would say that social protection within the boundaries of a Member State is not social and offers no protection .
Indeed , if social protection were to be phased out as a result of competition , this would also harm social protection as a production factor .
And less social protection means less purchasing power , fewer healthy employees and fewer happy employees .
In respect of the super-Europeans , I would say that European social protection is neither attainable nor desirable .
The discrepancies between the Member States are too immense in terms of provisions , rightful claimants , revenue or benefits , etc .
It is thus impossible to bring all States into line .
The path which the Commission is walking is , in fact , obvious .
It has the advantage of clarity , and it can collect data and exchange experiences in order to agree on objectives and finely tune solid , comparative indicators and put forward recommendations .
I endorse this view .
I will give my support to the Commission and I hope that Lisbon will take us a step forward in this matter .
Mr President , as others have done , I should also like to congratulate Mr Andersson for the report he has produced .
I also welcome the Commission 's communication .
It was slow in coming but well worth waiting for .
It could be a landmark in the development of a social Europe , providing we take it seriously and do not allow individual Member States to baulk at the steps that must be taken to implement it .
We can , and must , take the unique European social model we have and reform it to fit the twenty-first century , a century which is globalising fast .
I am afraid the proposals that are being put forward by Mr Herman Schmid will not deal with that globalising world .
To be successful we have to ensure that our economic policy , our employment policy and our social protection policy in its broadest sense , are integrated and that we deal with them as a whole .
This is not an option for us any more . It is an imperative .
European citizens will not settle for any less than a quality of life which befits them as human beings .
We do not want the US model - a model which has spectacularly failed to create the employment that is necessary to provide a decent quality of life .
What it has done is increase dramatically the number of working poor in the United States .
That is not what we want to do in Europe .
We have the traditions of solidarity in Europe and we have the experience of a better way of doing things .
But we have to grasp the tools to do that .
I therefore urge that we not only implement the high-level group as proposed by the Commission but also go further and have a Luxembourg-type process so that we have an integrated approach to this issue of social protection .
Mr President , Commissioner , this is one of the social areas to which the European Union ought to pay much more attention .
This situation is particularly serious in countries such as Portugal where the minimum pensions and pension schemes are barely more than half of the minimum national wage which in turn , is the lowest in the whole of Europe .
Mr President , in my previous life I ran two manufacturing businesses , one in the United Kingdom and one in the Netherlands .
As the UK business grew , we invested in more people , as the Dutch business grew we invested in more machinery .
The simple reason for this was that social costs in the Netherlands were just too high in comparison .
I am in favour of social protection , I am in favour of the original Commission document , but I do not want to see people priced out of jobs because social protection costs become unrealistically high .
That is why in committee I proposed some form of business impact assessment , so that costs and risks to jobs could be taken into account , and the EPP-DE Group supported this amendment .
But I must record that other groups , led by the PSE Group , guided by my countryman , Stephen Hughes , voted this out .
This would put more jobs at risk and also put at risk the credibility of this House by showing how remote we are from the real world .
I therefore urge this House to reject the full report and let the original Commission proposal , which was very well-balanced , stand unamended .
Mr President , we are unable to vote for this report .
The European Union should actually place social issues at the heart of the building of Europe .
Social rights should determine economic choices , and not the other way around .
The European Union should proclaim one general principle , to wit , that the social rights acquired in Member States may not be restricted .
Any Community intervention should aim to complement and to harmonise existing guarantees according to the highest common denominator .
In order to strengthen the funding of social security systems , we need a policy of general wage increase , the establishment of a minimum legal wage in each Member State .
In order to fight poverty , entitlement to an income and to employment are inalienable rights .
I sincerely hope , in conclusion , that social Europe cannot be satisfied with mere words and pious hopes .
For millions of people the situation is too tragic for that .
Mr President , Commissioner , the aim of developing a coordinated strategy for modernising social protection in the European Union is certainly an admirable one .
The labour market and social protection are , in fact , two sides of the same coin , that require harmonised policies and rules .
If the labour market functions by means of certain levels of employment , flexibility and salary discipline , then it is impossible for the welfare state and social protection not to function , and vice versa .
Until recently , the European countries fixed , it could be said in an autarkic way , the rules governing the functioning and financing of the two markets .
Budgetary and exchange rate policies were responsible for maintaining internal and external stability .
With the Maastricht Treaty and the single currency , budgetary discipline became tighter and recourse to devaluation ceased as a means of endeavouring to restore marginal competitiveness .
The structural and economic differences of the various countries cannot , therefore , be rebalanced through budget deficits and trade .
And therein lies the paradox .
Hypocrisy and fine-sounding words such as convergence , benchmarking , modernisation and concerted action are not going to extricate us from those contradictions .
That is something we would do well to recognise .
In particular , I am referring to the fact that this report - and I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this - defends the European social model ' s approach , which is one based on solidarity .
Mr President , I have taken the floor in order to reaffirm the need for the modernisation of social protection , which is much more then simply one more step in the construction of Europe .
This message is contained in the excellent report by Mr Andersson .
I believe that the latter means the possibility of employment for those who require it , but also decisive action in support of the socially disadvantaged .
Let us not forget that , in 1999 , 717,000 people came here to compensate for our low birth rate .
In social terms , it is therefore absolutely essential that we have an immigration policy with a social conscience , as President Gutierres recently stated in Spain .
We must be very aware of the situation of those people whose prospects of finding work are threatened or reduced by economic changes , mergers , take-overs , new technologies etc .
In my humble opinion , it is the responsibility of all European , national and regional governments to ensure that he rings on more than one occasion .
It seems to me , Commissioner , that the Commission has the responsibility to promote and coordinate these opportunities .
Mr President , I should like to congratulate Mr Andersson on his really excellent work , which is the reason why there is broader agreement , and I also thank the Members of Parliament involved for their contribution .
I would like to make a number of comments about what has been said .
Today , we have the statement by Mr Andersson .
I believe we have made considerable progress since we are now talking about the modernisation of social protection .
The second point is that we must bear in mind the legal basis by virtue of which the European Commission can operate .
The next point concerns the specific action we have undertaken .
As you know , a high-level group has already been set up by the Portuguese Presidency , which will present its first report to the Summit Conference in June .
The Portuguese Presidency has focused on two things : sustainable pension systems and social accession .
I believe that the proposal for a corresponding group at Parliamentary level is very positive and can contribute towards our progress to the next step after approval of the said high-level group .
Of course , we must take due note of the issue of competitiveness , but social protection too must be planned in a way that makes it a factor of economic growth and employment .
I think the statement ' s content makes this clear .
As many of the speakers have said , I believe a first important step has been taken .
Already at the Intergovernmental Conference , social policy issues are being addressed more broadly and I believe we are in a new phase , in which social policy will , to a large extent , become a European policy .
Thank you , Mrs Diamantopoulou .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
WIPO treaty
Mr President , we are now taking a stance on an important issue , an international agreement , which may influence the prospects for prosperity of many Member States .
In my own country , Sweden , one of our biggest export industries is affected , namely the music and sound recording industry .
It is about artists ' entitlement to copyright or to protection for their artistic products .
It is about the WCT ( World Copyright Treaty ) and the WPPT ( World Performance and Phonograms Treaty ) .
Without protection under intellectual property law , creativity is inhibited and financial incentives obstructed .
Forgeries are big business .
It is estimated that , in Europe alone , income of EUR 4.5 billion is lost because of piracy . The problem affects a lot of jobs in the entertainment industry .
There exists a special clause which requires Parliament ' s assent in two cases .
With regard to the present agreement , both these conditions are fulfilled . A new institution is being created , an assembly which , in the future , will monitor the agreement and its consequences .
The agreement also concerns questions dealt with in accordance with the co-decision-making procedure .
Parliament must therefore give its assent , because the agreement concerns its sphere of competence .
The future will show whether it is right , by means of this new parliamentary assembly , to reduce the Commission ' s powers regarding these issues .
Parliament cannot , in any case , at present do anything about the matter .
The agreement complements the Berne Convention in regard to literary works .
It creates international legal protection in connection with distribution , sale , rental , public reproduction and the making available of works . It also creates protection for software and databases .
There are problems regarding the term " author " . For example , it has not been defined .
Another issue , which is somewhat problematic , is that of intermediate storage .
This too has not been solved . It is dealt with by means of a general clause which does not provide any definition .
If no definitions are provided in questions such as this , it can lead to their being dealt with differently around the world , with no uniformity of approach . That would not be a good thing .
The question of arbitration procedures is still to be resolved , too .
Parliament cannot change these details .
We can only say yes or no to the agreement as it stands . Yes or no to an agreement which contains deficiencies .
Both myself , as rapporteur , and the committee think we ought to say yes . We have here an agreement which , in spite of its defects , constitutes a significant step forward for the issue of copyright .
We have of course discussed at length whether Parliament and whether the EU should have powers in regard to patents under intellectual property law .
I think they should have .
However , there is still no Community legislation in the areas of patent law and protection of designs , and there needs to be .
A European patent is in the offing , and that is a good thing .
Now , the Union and the Member States are combining to take the first steps in the area of intellectual property law .
It is good for us that we have the power to do this , in spite of the fact that we are not completely satisfied .
In that way , we can act as a model for the applicant States .
We have a direct financial interest in these issues being settled before enlargement .
I want to thank the Commission for its efforts in this area and for the cooperation with the Commission ' s officials , which has been quite excellent .
Finally , I also want to thank this Chamber for being so good as to listen to these words at this late hour .
Mr President , I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur , Mrs Cederschild , on her very serious work .
She has clearly identified the problems created by the approval of the World Intellectual Property Organisation ' s treaties .
Their approval is undoubtedly an historic occasion because for the first time the European Union is participating as a contracting party in an international treaty that governs the field of intellectual property .
The problem has been overcome .
Today we are asked to give our assent in effect to two treaties : the treaty on intellectual property and the treaty on interpretations , performances and phonograms .
In that context a noteworthy and important step forward is the treaty ' s treatment of the right of reproduction .
It would be appropriate , however , for us also to mention some points which should be at the focus of future WIPO work or the work of other diplomatic conferences .
As regards rental rights , on interpretation of Article 9 , we can conclude that the exclusive right of rental belongs to artists , interpreters or performers , only if this is laid down by national legislation .
I think this conflicts with Article 13 .
To conclude , I want to say that ratification of these treaties opens a horizon for property rights .
In the 21st century , the century of knowledge and the invisible economy , intellectual property will be the dominant form of property and will , in many cases , be more important than traditional property .
This ratification is also necessary in the light of the enlargement of Europe .
However , an objective is emerging behind this issue of Community accession , one I find as yet too theoretical but one that some Member States , nonetheless , find too offensive .
This is the affirmation of a European cultural policy . In this connection , I expect our three institutions , Parliament , the Commission and the Council , to be in agreement .
Cultural policy means , in particular , defending the role of the arts , recognising the role of authors and setting high cultural standards .
Our definitions are still too vague and new technologies now make it essential for us to clarify them .
Mr President , Commissioner , the adoption of the WIPO agreements was a very positive step in the direction of the global information society .
The agreements crystallise the decades-old legacy of copyright , and they represent a precisely considered and balanced solution for the regulation of copyright and neighbouring rights .
The entry into force of the treaties and their final form is , however , in addition to this recommendation , dependent on implementation by the parties themselves .
The EU too must proceed in its legislative work in accordance with what is agreed in the WIPO .
It is worrying that the position adopted by the previous Parliament does not support this balanced WIPO system .
The opinion on the copyright directive at first reading was very distorted , and , furthermore , the balance is moving in a harmful direction from the point of view of Europeans .
The recommendations that have been made will not improve the status of culture in Europe , on the contrary .
I am not now speaking of Charlotte Cederschild ' s recommendation , which is an excellent paper , but of the matters of copyright that the previous Parliament discussed .
On one point of detail , I would like to thank Mrs Cederschild for having clarified , for example , the concept of so-called temporary copies in her opinion .
There is no consciously adopted position in the WIPO Treaty on temporary copies .
If these , which technically speaking are copies , were covered by the protection in force it would make the transfer of information - as the recommendation quite rightly states - expensive and complicated for no good reason .
It would be as if the deliveryman had to pay a copyright fee whenever he carried a book to be read by the purchaser .
The real benefit of culture is that art and knowledge can be transferred safely and easily from the artist directly to the user , the consumer .
The new operational environment is , above all , a huge opportunity to create and spread culture in a different way than ever before .
It is essential that the interests of all parties are taken into account .
Parliament has tried to take account of this in its own recommendation .
.
( NL ) Mr President , I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on the work that she has carried out .
The Commission is under the impression that she has worked fast and effectively .
This is important .
It befits the Commission to express its gratitude towards the rapporteur .
I would like to present the Commission ' s conclusion to you without any further ado : it agrees with the conclusions of the draft recommendation and , therefore , with ratification by this Parliament .
I would like to stress the importance of both Treaties .
Both Treaties contribute towards a high level of protection for works and other matters , but offer the public access to the contents of these via electronic networks .
The two Treaties explicitly permit the Community to become a party to the Treaties and to play an important role in managing them .
Consequently , approval of the Treaties by the Community is of major importance , because it illustrates that the Community sets great store by intellectual property rights .
In addition , assent leads to more widespread international recognition of the European Union ' s role in terms of copyright .
At international level , there is a great deal of support for treaties entering into force more swiftly . These have now been ratified by twelve or thirteen WIPO Member States , including the United States .
The developing countries , too , expect the European Union to bring about ratification swiftly because this would give a strong signal worldwide .
In this context , Parliament has already played a key role in the discussions on the draft directive on copyright in the Information Society , which led to the approval of the Barzanti report in February 1999 .
This directive is the necessary counterpart of the proposed decision and largely embraces the key principles of the WIPO Treaties .
The European Parliament must now follow once again the exceptional assent procedure of Article 300 ( 3 ) .
It is vitally important to give the correct signal to the outside world , in the form of this recommendation .
In a nutshell , I would like to reiterate the Commission ' s conclusion here : it supports the draft recommendation and hopes that it will be of key importance to anyone with an interest in intellectual property .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30a.m.
( The sitting was closed at 11.55 p.m. )
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of yesterday ' s sitting have been distributed .
Are there any comments ?
Mr President , I see in the Minutes that two Members spoke yesterday about delayed flights to Strasbourg on Monday .
I would like to add that the flight from Amsterdam ' s Schipol airport was also delayed and then cancelled .
We were diverted to Basel-Mulhouse Airport .
We were told that a bus would meet us there on arrival . In fact , it took 45 minutes after we arrived before the bus appeared at the airport .
We finally got here , on Monday at 8.30 p.m. , after some of us had spent more than 12 hours travelling .
This sort of service and difficulty in getting to Strasbourg on a Monday is quite hopeless .
I wonder if that could be added to the Minutes .
Mr President , I was booked on the same flight and I am rather embarrassed to admit that the airline was KLM , our national airline company .
I hope that next time , also if any other airline company is involved , things will run more smoothly .
( The Minutes were approved )
Mr President , I would just like to draw your attention to something that concerns today ' s agenda .
We decided on Monday that the Council ' s statement on the Fiftieth Anniversary of the Geneva Convention was to be postponed .
I would just like to clarify that we will only be talking about the other items on this agenda today , and not about the Geneva Convention .
This item has been postponed until the next part-session in March .
It was erroneously included in today ' s agenda .
Mr Swoboda , I can confirm what you have just said and there is , in fact , a printing error .
The document that has been distributed contains inaccuracies , because the decision has been taken to postpone the debate .
Mr President , I just want to say that , as I was walking in this morning , I noticed two people smoking outside the Hemicycle .
The smell is absolutely disgusting !
Can you please do something about it ?
Coherence of EU policies with development
The next item is the statement by the Council and the Commission on the coherence of EU policies with development .
I shall , of course , give the Commission an opportunity to add to some of the observations that I shall be making .
The consequence of all this is a reassessment of development policies in response to the globalisation of economic and financial markets .
A serious imbalance in the functioning of these markets has emerged , which has of course made it necessary to make important adjustments , which in turn inevitably mean new options as regards development policies .
We will therefore find ourselves on the threshold of a new model for development policies which - and I would like to stress this - will require action on our part in four essential areas :
Furthermore , this new model must respect the need for this integrated vision of development to be approached both from a global policy angle and also in the light of the various donor countries ' own policies .
A third aspect of this new model that I would like to emphasise is a policy aimed at achieving our objectives .
The concerted actions of the United Nations institutions have played an important role here , as has the Bretton Woods system .
This new role for international organisations on development issues is also a good reason for us to consider the role of the European Union in this context .
If we are to strengthen the European Union ' s role in international development policies , we believe that it is basically necessary to take three kinds of action .
Firstly , we need to make the EU ' s development policy more effective .
As you know , an exercise was carried out in 1995 involving an overall assessment of development policies , and the results of this overall assessment exercise were presented during the German Presidency .
The main conclusions emphasised the need for a more coherent EU policy and a more strategic overall EU approach to development issues .
A second aspect worth highlighting underscores the need for EU policy and the policies of the Member States to complement each other more .
It is widely known that a significant proportion of aid is today granted under the Member States ' national policies , which are not always complementary or well coordinated .
The third aspect I would like to highlight is the strengthening and coherence of EU policies , the central theme of today ' s debate .
As you know , a Council Resolution was approved , in June 1997 , under which the Commission was required to present evaluation reports .
The first such report was presented to the Council in May 1999 , and it referred to certain aspects of policy coordination , notably in the fields of peace building , food safety , fisheries and migration .
But as you will also be aware , we are waiting for a Commission communication on coherence , together with the communication on development policy .
Over the coming months , that is to say during the Portuguese Presidency , this debate will of course be enriched by the contributions that the Commission has undertaken to present to us .
By this I mean , of course , the internal dynamics of the European Union .
The second aspect that we need to consider , in relation to the coherence of policies , is development policy in the context of the Union ' s foreign policy .
There can be no doubt that implementing and developing all these aspects will inevitably make an important contribution to strengthening the role of development policies in the context of the European Union ' s foreign policy .
The third aspect that needs to be considered is European Union policy and Member States ' policy .
Coherence of policies at European level certainly means better coordination of Member States ' policies with the European Union ' s development policy .
If we do not establish improved mechanisms to ensure coherence between national policies , it will certainly be more difficult to deliberate against a background of greater coherence in European Union development policy .
The views of the European Parliament on this issue too , will certainly be both timely and welcome .
. Let me start by saying something about the successfully concluded negotiations between the EU and ACP countries .
I would like to remark that it was a very positive experience taking part in those negotiations .
I saw Member States working as a team , which was indeed a wonderful experience .
There was also deep satisfaction on both sides when this was over , not just because it was over , but because we all knew that we had achieved something together , the EU and the 71 ACP countries .
That is something that the world needs and is a very good signal in the framework of the whole discussion of globalisation .
I shall outline some of the major innovations in the new agreement .
We explicitly address corruption ; we establish a framework for dealing with the problem of immigration for the first time ever .
We promote participatory approaches , we ensure the consultation of civil society on the reforms and policies to be supported by the EU .
We refocus development policies on poverty reduction strategies .
We base the allocation of funds not only on an assessment of each country 's needs , but also of its policy performance .
We create an investment facility to support the development of the private sector .
We rationalise instruments and introduce a new system of rolling programming , allowing the Community and the beneficiary country to regularly adjust their cooperation programme .
We decentralise administrative and , in some cases , financial responsibilities to local level with the aim of making cooperation more effective .
We improve the policy framework for trade and investment development .
We enhance cooperation in all areas important to trade , including new issues such as labour standards and the linkages between environment and trade .
After Seattle I am sure you will appreciate the significance of these agreements .
Let me turn to some of the more important points .
Firstly the agreement on political issues .
Secondly , a new procedure has been drawn up for cases of violations of human rights , democratic principles and the rule of law .
In cases of special urgency involving serious violations of one of these essential elements , measures will be taken immediately and the other party will be notified .
Thirdly , the EU and the ACP have also agreed on a new specific procedure to be launched in serious cases of corruption .
This is a real innovation , both in the EU / ACP context and in international relations in general .
It is thus not confined to EC activities .
This is a very important aspect , taking into account the fundability of public finances .
By adopting such a provision in the partnership agreement , the EU and the ACP States are together sending a clear and positive signal that will doubtless be appreciated by European taxpayers and hopefully also by European investors .
Another new theme in the ACP-EU agreement is migration .
We have reached a balanced agreement on cooperation in this area .
This new dimension to the partnership agreement reflects the guidelines espoused by the EU in accordance with the Treaty of Amsterdam and with the conclusions of the European Council in Tampere in Finland in October 1999 .
The European Union undertakes to develop and implement an immigration and asylum policy founded on the principle of partnership with the originating countries and regions .
The agreement concluded with the ACP countries paves the way for new initiatives , in particular on the rights of third country citizens within the EU , and measures facilitating their integration .
We also agreed on provisions to address questions related to illegal immigration .
This also covers persons from third countries and stateless persons .
These very innovative approaches provide a good opportunity to improve governance .
The agreement also offers a good framework to underpin the mutually reinforcing effects of trade cooperation and development aid .
We have agreed on a process to establish new trading arrangements that will pursue trade liberalisation between the parties and to formulate provisions on trade-related matters .
We have met the concerns of the ACP states as far as the time-frame of the trade negotiations is concerned .
Negotiations will start no later than 2002 .
This two-year preparatory period will be used to strengthen regional integration processes and the ACP countries ' capacity to conduct trade negotiations .
A six-year period is programmed for these negotiations .
This approach will lead us to a fully WTO compatible regime .
Economic operators will be more inclined to establish closer relations with their ACP partners .
Domestic and foreign investment will grow and more know-how and technology will be transferred , all of which will boost the ACP countries ' competitiveness and ease their gradual integration into the world economy .
In addition , the agreements with the EU will act as an anchor .
They will lock in the economic reforms , just as national and economic reforms will be stabilised by both parties ' commitments under the agreements .
The rationale behind this new approach is also based on the idea that open trade policies combined with social development policies will lead to economic growth and poverty reduction .
Another important aspect is the improvement of the EU ' s trade regime for all least-developed countries , 39 of which are actually in the ACP group .
This process will take place in the coming five years so that , by 2005 , the LDCs ' exporters will have free access for essentially all their products on the EU market .
As regards the volume of the next EDF , the EU has made its financial proposal .
It is based on the principle of reconciling the need to maintain a substantial amount of financial resources in a period of limited official development assistance budgets with the need to make Community aid more effective .
Today about EUR 9.5 billion of previous EDF resources are uncommitted .
The EU is committed to mobilising these remaining balances , plus the new EDF resources , over a seven-year period , that is to say , before the entry into force of the next financial protocol .
This will enable the Community to substantially increase annual flows of commitments and payments during this period .
We are thus not moving into a period in the coming years of reduced activity , we are moving into a period of increased activity .
Such a commitment entails an in-depth reform of procedures and implementation modalities on both sides .
There is a very real link between the reform process in the Commission as such , and our ability to deliver on the ground which is the basis of the deal with the ACP countries .
Turning to our development policy , I would say that the global context has changed drastically .
It is within this changing global framework that we have to position ourselves .
Fortunately evaluations of EC aid give us a meaningful tool to improve what we are doing and also hopefully to meet the challenges I have just mentioned .
To focus on the input coming from the evaluations , I would mention the following problems : the objections of Community policy are too numerous and too vague and this adversely affects coherence .
This is due to the complexity of our own structures , but also to very real inconsistencies between sector policies and interests in the Member States .
The Commission has an aid system that is too complex and fragmented in terms of instruments , procedures and institutional mechanisms .
Often policies are more determined by the instruments available , than by policy objectives and clearly-defined priorities .
Human resources are too thin in relation to the volume of aid that we are supposed to manage .
On average , to manage $ US 10 million of aid there are 2.9 staff at the Commission , compared with 4.3 at the World Bank and between 4 and 9 in major Member States .
This is a real problem : there are too many different financial instruments , each with its own characteristics and in particular a series of different budget headings .
This is difficult to reconcile with the needs of an effective management system .
In order to face and solve these problems the Community needs to engage in an effective dialogue with Member States and Parliament .
It is absolutely crucial that we tackle the coherence issue in a realistic and pragmatic way , which means holding the debate in the appropriate institutional framework , that is , the Council and Parliament .
The lack of concerted action among the 15 Member States themselves and between them and the Community also needs to be addressed .
By focusing the Community 's development policy on internationally agreed targets and strategies we will pave the way for better complementarity with the Member States .
This is very much the line also just presented by Minister Amado .
When we talk policies nowadays , we engage in a process of convergence .
This is part of the solution .
We are in the process of formulating new policy guidelines and we need to identify priority areas for Community action .
Everything has become more and more complex .
This is also true of development cooperation .
It is important to find flexible mechanisms that accommodate a division of labour according to the expertise and capacity of the various donors in each developing country .
This should be done at Member State level and should lead to the formulation of sector policies for Community action .
This is where we want to go .
To identify the EC 's priority areas of support , account has to be taken of the Community 's specific features in relation to the Member States and to international institutions .
It is vital to make Community policy more effective and to develop a more operational strategic framework .
It is this dual challenge that the Commission has to take up , by framing in the months ahead a proposal for a general policy statement .
We will launch a broad and open consultation process in order to get the views of all the different parties interested .
Parallel to this we have also embarked on the process of improving coherence and clarifying and bringing to the surface and into the open the real or imaginary problems we are having in this respect .
This will be an ongoing process which I see as a kind of continued quality control effort and I invite Parliament to participate in this ongoing effort to improve the coherence of what we are doing .
Mr President , I would firstly like to thank Mr Amado and Mr Nielson .
I am pleased that Mr Amado talked about the EDF .
The problem , however , should not be sought within this Parliament or the Commission ; it is the Council that needs to make a decision on the EDF budget .
This sermon , therefore , really belongs in the Council .
Mr President , I thank Mr Nielson .
He has talked extensively about the new Lom Convention , although this is not really the topic of this morning ' s meeting .
We want to talk about coherence .
This is the topic .
This problem has been highlighted on several occasions , to whit in 1992 , in 1995 and 1997 .
The examples are all quoted in a resolution which lies before us .
I have raised questions regarding this issue for years now .
In fact , the obligation for coherence of policy was even included in the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1997 .
In 1998 , it was agreed that the European Commission should publish an annual report which highlights any improvements .
But what have we seen since then ?
Fine words , as is the case again today , but no report .
It is too crazy for words , really .
It is a fact that we are dealing with contradictory policy .
Time and time again , good intentions are formulated but nothing is implemented .
It is , therefore , with good reason that we bring this up here today .
I would like to give you a few examples to illustrate these contradictions .
A number of developing countries grow sugar cane for sugar production .
In the Union , sugar is produced from sugar beet .
In order to prevent this cheap sugar from the developing countries from competing with the more expensive EU sugar , a considerable import levy is imposed on cane sugar .
The result is that the export of cane sugar from the relevant countries to the Union is significantly restricted .
At the same time , we give these countries an enormous amount of development aid .
A Minister from one of the Caribbean islands which produce sugar cane once told me : If you just allowed our sugar access to the European Union , we would not need your development aid at all .
Another example is cacao .
The European Union intends to permit 5 % of alternative fats in chocolate in order to harmonise the internal market .
This could just as well be 0 % - the internal market would still be harmonised .
By pitching the percentage level at 5 % , which is now likely to be the case , it is almost certain that hundreds of thousands of small cacao farmers in developing countries will be put at a disadvantage .
It seems to be heading this way nevertheless .
What are we actually doing then ?
This is also typical of a policy which makes citizens wonder what Brussels actually does ?
It seems that European industry is more important here than our own principles , our own coherences and the interests of the developing countries .
There are also shocking examples in terms of sanctions and embargoes .
Why institute an oil boycott against Haiti and not against Burma , where an elected President is imprisoned , parliament has been sent home and some of the MPs have been put in jail or even murdered ?
The inconsistency is astonishing .
Here too , Mr Nielson mentioned another good example regarding the new Lom Convention .
If the new Lom Convention is simply put into operation , without eradicating all these inconsistencies from the policy , the policy will then be built on shifting sands - to use a biblical expression .
The Council has quoted examples of inconsistency time after time : in agriculture , commerce , in conflict prevention , in the peace operations , in the fisheries sector , migration and environment .
Mr Nielson , what we are waiting for is a good report on these inconsistencies and a number of specific proposals to eliminate these from the policy .
Once again , all your fine examples , your marvellous policy - and I include the Secretary of State in this - will otherwise be built on shifting sands and will not really come off the ground .
This is also at the request of the citizens .
We have been saying this ourselves since back in 1992 : this is the topic of this debate .
I hope the message strikes home and I really hope that you will soon produce a report which contains measures .
The topic touches the very core of the European Union .
Let me begin by specifying precisely what we are debating .
What are the objectives which each EU policy needs to take into account ?
Mr President , these are no arbitrary objectives . These are articles , statutory articles , which form part of the European acquis established by law with which the European institutions and Member States must comply .
Every statutory article should , of course , not just be judged on its regularity , but also on the importance of its contents .
I am of the opinion - and luckily I am not alone in this - that the principle of policy coherence is essential to every government which aims to be a credible servant of its citizens .
The interests of the citizens are only served by a credible and reliable government .
This is important if the government wants to gain the trust of society , and also important from the point of view of effectiveness , for coherence is required in order to use the restricted means efficiently .
We should not make reality out to be more rose-tinted than it really is .
Reality is obstinate .
It is up to the government to deal with this fact in a transparent and open manner , without any backhandedness .
The government is obliged to show up any of its dilemmas , and to show where , when and why , problems occur with coherence of policy , rather than sweeping it all under the carpet .
What we are talking about here today is not an issue which can be toyed with at leisure . Poverty in the third world is a harrowing problem that demands urgent attention .
This is a moral interest , a safety interest and is , ultimately , even in the interest of our economy .
We are all acting as if this is not really happening , but we all know that it is .
It is not our task as MEPs to adopt an ostrich policy and bury our heads in the sand .
The general interest of policy coherence is , therefore , a responsibility of the Commission as a whole , of the Council , and of the European Parliament .
What we need here is an integral approach .
This is why we urge the Commission , in this sharp and clear resolution , to develop specific instruments .
We need to pinpoint , and draw up an inventory of , the problem areas for coherence .
We need to make it evident which problems we are solving and which we have not yet solved .
This is why I advocate a monitoring centre for coherence which makes this apparent .
This is why we need to set up inter-service task groups in the Commission , in the Council and in Parliament which can police the attainment of coherence .
I would wish the Commissioner all the best in his battle within the Commission and wish Mr Amado the same within the Council .
Mr President , let us be clear from the outset : when it comes to cooperation , coherence is far from being the watchword .
The Treaties provide for the European Union to help developing countries to develop but , as the previous speakers have explained so well , there are various distortions to these declarations .
The first area of incoherence is the lack of consultation between the Union and the Member States on individual cooperation policies .
This gives rise to serious malfunctions , because some Community programmes duplicate national programmes , whereas they might have helped other projects about which nothing is done .
And let us not forget that the de facto neo-colonial policy of certain Member States does nothing to help the countries which they are supposedly helping to develop .
The second area of incoherence is aid to authoritarian regimes .
We state that good governance and an end to corruption are mandatory but we continue to pour hundreds of thousands of euros into Swiss bank accounts via the portfolios of a number of Heads of State .
The third area of incoherence is human rights .
We say that we want to protect human rights .
We encourage developing countries to respect human rights .
We even adopt numerous resolutions condemning every violation of human rights .
We ally ourselves with demonstrations and international campaigns .
And yet , at the same time , we allow the arms trade to proliferate and do not even attempt to limit the trade in the most atrocious forms of arms such as anti-personnel mines .
Nor do we do much to really prevent human rights violations .
The fourth area of incoherence in the European Union ' s cooperation policy is this : how do you expect to help development by pillaging the natural resources of the people you are helping .
The European Union must leave fish for local fishermen to feed local populations instead of systematically destroying maritime resources through intensive fisheries .
We must leave raw materials so that local manufacturers can process them .
I will not even mention oil ; we are all aware of the policy of groups such as Elf and Total in Africa .
These agreements risk being extended to living organisms , which would mean the death of biodiversity and the return of de facto slavery for small-scale farmers in the south , at the hands of the multinationals .
And yet , and this is the sixth area of incoherence , we do not defend the application of the current Treaties .
The eighth area of incoherence is of a political and practical nature .
We are always saying think globally , act locally .
And yet we disregard local development agencies and prefer to negotiate with national governments and subsidise northern NGOs at the expense of local programmes and southern NGOs .
And what about agriculture and the environment ? Still more problems , still more areas of incoherence which I might have highlighted , not to mention research , emigration or health .
In short , we claim that we want to help developing countries and , at the same time , we encourage the liberalisation of trade , which we acknowledge runs counter to that very objective .
Mr President , I feel that this debate is particularly timely and appropriate , not just because development is in general an important issue , but because it is also a topical one .
Seattle was a failure , and north-south relations were in the spotlight for all the wrong reasons .
The meeting held in that North American city demonstrated that globalisation is having seriously unbalanced and negative effects on poorer countries .
The Tenth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development is being held right now in Bangkok , and is suffering the consequences of that failure .
In the meantime , however , as has already been mentioned , the negotiations on the future of the Lom Convention have been concluded .
This goes to show just how topical this subject is .
We could also add to the list the next EU-OAU summit which it has finally been agreed to hold in Cairo in April .
Furthermore , the recent Community budget cuts in this area , for the present financial year , are part of this trend , as well as sending an undesirable and misguided political message .
He was of course talking about the aid granted by developed countries to less developed countries .
It may seem ironic that this statement should come from someone in his position , but he did indeed say this , and I heard it with my own ears .
A new agreement has been reached with the ACP countries .
This is a positive development in itself , especially given the pressures to terminate it and the fact that various Member States did not wish it to continue .
Certain politically important aspects of the new partnership agreement will have contributed to these .
This was without a doubt the result of a complex negotiating process in which both parties made major concessions , and this is certainly true of the European Union , especially in the field of good governance and trade .
But it was above all the result of a stronger ACP group , which obviously found new courage following the events in Seattle .
I particularly wish to stress that a new way of looking at these issues seems to be emerging , especially as regards trade , and it is certainly necessary to tackle this area .
Lastly , we need to go further in our development aid policies towards developing countries .
We cannot simply forge ahead with something that in the past has shown itself to be inappropriate and wrong-headed .
Mr President , having listened to the Council and the Commission today , I just had to look at my agenda .
Yes , it does say : ' Coherence of different Union policies with development policy ' .
But we have not heard a single word on this subject , and I find that deeply embarrassing .
We have been waiting for a report on coherence for years .
It ought to have been here in writing today and , after having heard Mr Nielson ' s speech , I can well imagine that he is up against a lot of powerful opposition in the Commission .
I know that the Commissioner himself has some strong and extremely reasonable opinions on coherence , and these are what I should like to have heard expressed here today .
The examples are , I hope , all well known .
In any case , they are known all too well to the producers in the ACP countries who are affected by these measures and who have to destroy their products because they cannot compete with EU-subsidised products .
European taxpayers contribute EUR 40 billion per year in support of agriculture in the EU .
This is money which is helping to impede the development of the agricultural sector in the developing countries , which accounts for 69 % of the total work force there compared with 1.7 % in the EU .
Add to this the fact that the agricultural sector accounts for 34 % of the developing countries ' gross national product , compared with 5.3 % in the EU .
There is neither coherence nor human decency here .
Why will neither the Council nor the Commission admit the fact ?
Mr President , how policy decisions are arrived at is surely fundamental .
The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and his Foreign Secretary yesterday made statements on their policy in regard to the voting system within the Council .
They pointed out that the UK , France and Germany far exceed the other countries of the European Union at present in terms of population .
They then drew the conclusion that population size should be reflected in the voting system and that the United Kingdom would not surrender its veto .
Is the Council discussing this issue ?
Have the UK representatives indicated to the Council their decision and proposal and what , if any , consideration has been given to it ?
As this voting matter is vital to the democratic future of this Union , surely it should receive priority consideration .
How decisions are made is all-important .
Much as I agree with the requirement to hold a debate on the coherence of different Union policies and development policy , I question whether today is the time to be holding it .
However , the Council statement gave me hope for the future .
It is quite obvious to me , as someone who specialises in development policy , that there are many areas where lack of coherence is dramatically affecting developing nations .
I will give some examples shortly .
This was followed by a request from the Council to the Commission to provide an annual report , the first of which was to be discussed in 1998 .
We still await the first report , and that is why I believe this debate was premature , as the Commission had little to say on coherence this morning .
The areas identified by the Council are specific areas where policy coherence is particularly important , such as peace-building , conflict prevention and resolution , food security , fisheries and immigration .
Some of these issues have been discussed in depth .
Members of this House will have differing views , even within the same political parties , depending on ( a ) which country they come from or ( b ) which committee they sit on .
There are areas of coherence I would like to see as a member of the Committee on Development that would probably horrify some of the members of the Committee on Agriculture or Committee on Fisheries .
We have beef exported to southern Africa , to Namibia and South Africa , which then sell their indigenous beef to Swaziland , so that Swaziland can fill its export quota back to the European Union .
Remember too , some countries blocked an agreement with South African trade for four years .
I am not surprised the Commission is having trouble producing a basic document for discussion on sustainable and social development .
There is a natural resistance in the developing world to anything that would lower standards of living and create further unemployment .
I wish the Commission well in its task of producing that basic document .
Mr President , this morning ' s debate is very important .
I therefore thank the Commission and the Council for having made a statement on the coherence of Community policies in relation to development , because this demonstrates a will to make policy in this area more effective .
However , if we are simply carrying out a diagnosis of the incoherences in our policy , we will end up totally frustrated and , furthermore , the result will be negative .
As with the systems of forces which are studied in basic physics , it makes no sense to implement policies which will cancel each other out .
The result of this absurd game is not zero , but rather a minus number , as a consequence of the material , financial and human resources thrown away in a pointless enterprise .
With regard to policy , this minus number is multiplied by the number of results which are not achieved each time one measure cancels out the intended effect of another .
In today ' s globalised world , this fact is all the more obvious .
There are no boundaries for Community policies .
Both institutions identify the most important areas where this idea should be applied .
The Commission is addressing a very important area , that is , commercial policy .
However , this Parliament wishes to add policies to aid development , agriculture , fisheries policy , immigration , our position in international financial institutions , the common foreign and security policy and aid for structural reform .
Since the Development Council is in agreement with what he says - and this is very significant - there is little we can say , as some previous speakers have pointed out .
Mr President , I too should like to thank the Council and the Commission for their reports and , in common with others , express my regret at the fact that coherence policy has not been given more prominence .
But we who sit here in Parliament do not doubt for a second what the reason is .
I should therefore like to discuss something more general and begin with a couple of , in my view , useful figures .
And there is no sign of this trend ' s being reversed .
On the contrary , it looks as if we have entered an exponential curve which is widening the gap still further .
In other words , there will have to be a quantum leap in development policy if the rich countries , including the EU countries , are not to surround themselves with barriers to prevent immigration on a massive scale .
In a global village , major discrepancies in the world will not , in the longer term , be tolerated by the poorest section of the village .
At some time or another , there will be a revolt , and it will be fully justified .
The EU on average is far from providing the pledged 0.7 % .
It may well be that others are worse , but that does not place us in any better a light .
Above all , however , we should give the countries concerned the opportunity to trade with us .
As far as I could hear - but I may have missed something - the President-in-Office of the Council did not mention the word " trade " at all .
I shall conclude with a few words about the Internet revolution .
As Commissioner Liikanen keeps saying on his travels , we have a head start here in Europe in the area of mobile telecommunications .
Let us use this not only for the benefit of our own populations but also for that of the developing countries .
This technology can facilitate that necessary quantum leap forward in development policy to which I referred and , in this connection , the EU can set the agenda , leave its mark on development and honour its global responsibilities .
Mr President , " The EU ' s development cooperation leaves a great deal to be desired " .
This is just a quote from a newspaper article which appeared last week , commenting on the Union ' s development policy .
This is not new .
Ever since we have attempted to do something about development cooperation , its effectiveness and quality have been called into question .
Hope of improvement threatens to be nipped in the bud if the Commission keeps refusing to look into the mirror .
Why was the critical report on the coherence of development policy not disseminated externally ?
One of the major conclusions of this report concerned the European policy ' s internal conflict .
In terms of trade and agriculture , in particular , the European policy is in conflict with the development policy .
We seem unable to make a serious contribution to the development of the least developed countries .
This has everything to do with the difference of opinion which exists among various countries within the Union regarding development cooperation .
We should no longer view development cooperation as an instrument of external and foreign relations , but as a policy in its own right .
I advocate transparent , joint and efficient development policy .
As long as the European approach to the development issue creates more inefficiency and wastes more money , it remains appropriate to apportion a larger role to the Member States .
Finally , I would like to ask the Commission to send the document I referred to to the European Parliament as soon as possible , so that we can help think of possible solutions in a constructive way .
Mr President , Commissioner , I believe that this is an appropriate initiative and that it makes very good sense .
And we are not just talking about the concrete impact of our common policies , tourism , the environment , agriculture , fisheries and industry .
We are talking in general terms - and this is more serious - about contradictions between our economic and trade policies and our defence policies .
So there is a whole raft of contradictions .
In my opinion , these contradictions are not all that serious in terms of Community policies .
They are , if anything , more serious as regards certain objectives and industries in some Member States .
We have to be aware of this .
For me , these are the most serious contradictions in all this , more serious than the contradictions inherent in any incompatibility between sectoral policies .
We obviously know that , even within any one country , there are always contradictions between various policies .
That is a fact of life .
And we must also be aware that there will be contradictions between the various Community policies , in this case development policy .
We have to be aware that these contradictions exist and that we need to minimise them .
The underlying reason for presenting this resolution is that the objective of minimising these contradictions is a fair and wise one .
This monitoring centre should draw up an annual report on developments in these policies and on their impact and interaction .
I have left to the end a question that I regard as fundamental and which I think needs to be noted and approved by this House .
That is why I consider it to be essential - and fair - for these principles to be established at the next WTO round .
Time after time development policy is forgotten or is an afterthought when the major policies of this European Union are considered .
Take the new chocolate directive , which shows that EU countries spend more on chocolate every year than on development aid .
There has been no proper development assessment of this directive which the producer countries , 90 % of which are our ACP partners , estimate could cut incomes to cacao farmers by at least 15 % .
Take the fishing agreements , where we recognise the unsustainability of current fishing practices within the EU waters .
We are , at the same time , negotiating joint ventures allowing increased access for Europe ' s large-scale fishing vessels in developing country waters at the expense of 190 million small-scale fish workers in those countries world-wide .
Take the trade agreements .
As Mr Nielson said this morning with regard to Lom , preferential access is only for " essentially all the products of the least-developed countries " .
In other words , when EU commercial interests are concerned , poverty considerations go out of the window .
On the common agricultural policy , the biggest culprit - no development impact assessment of the Agenda 2000 CAP reforms .
Today beef stocks stand at 300 000 tonnes .
Who will be next , quite literally , for the chop ?
I welcome too the Council declaration of 1992 , its resolution of 1997 and successive changes in the Treaty of European Union .
Action simply has not been taken .
That is why we want annual reports , we want an annual inter-service group and we want a complaints procedure , to make sure action is actually taken .
I ask Mr Nielson , in his summing-up , to directly address those points in the resolution .
Mr President , I would like to restrict my contribution to the link between development cooperation and agriculture .
Over the past couple of years , a considerable share of the funds has been channelled towards the development of agriculture and cattle breeding in the developing countries and , more especially , the Lom countries .
The results are certainly not what we expected .
What could be the cause of this ?
I think that the cause should first and foremost be sought in the lack of clear agricultural policy in the various developing countries , barring a few exceptions .
I think that the Commission could do a great deal there to help this develop .
No farmer , anywhere in the world , will produce something if prices are too low .
The governments in the developing countries are always faced with a difficult dilemma : whom should they support , the farmers or the people in the large cities who want cheap food ?
It should not be the case that the policy of the Member States contravenes that of the Commission .
It is up to the Commission ' s delegations in the developing countries to assume a leading role in the development of this political dialogue and to ensure that all countries follow this line of approach .
Special attention is also required for the costs of the means of production .
Far too often , artificial fertiliser , veterinary medication and a host of other items are provided to farmers free of charge .
Once the project comes to an end after five years , the policy of free gifts also ends .
Finally , I wonder whether the funds could not be put to better use .
Every year , I notice in the budget of the Commission and in the European Development Fund , that they are far behind in spending the funds .
Mr President , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , Commissioner , we are in actual fact holding a debate amongst the converted , which is a pity .
We also note that , as before , there are still various DGs which stifle this policy with often very conflicting procedures and arguments .
The President-in-Office of the Council came up with a good suggestion , namely to budget the European Development Fund .
Parliament would , of course , welcome this with open arms .
If this were possible , it would be a huge , historic victory .
Since Amsterdam , three terms have taken centre stage : complementarity , coordination and cohesion .
I believe that very little has been achieved in these three fields .
One thing shocked me in the speech of the President-in-Office of the Council .
He stated : " Contradictions in policy can lead to balance . "
It is indeed the case that what one hand gives can be taken away by the other hand , and vice versa .
But this leads to status-quo and self-deceit , and globalisation as a whole has so far only led to changes , indeed , but changes which have only made poverty worse .
This is supposed to be our priority , would you believe .
I know that we do a great deal of good , but let us start with this very essential aspect .
Mr President , we have already noted that there is no report from the Commission , but I intend to discuss three matters in the light of the objectives which the Council presented in its 1997 opinion .
The first is concerned with conflict resolution .
The UN has a peace plan . We ought to seize this opportunity and bring the last colonial episode in Africa to an end .
I also want to take up the subject of migration .
I am anxious about the new stipulations in the partnership agreement with the ACP countries , which might make it easier to expel immigrants , asylum seekers and refugees on flimsier grounds .
I really also want to see the EU pioneer patents on living organisms .
We now know that at least one person in the world dies of hunger every four seconds .
Three quarters of those who die are children under five years of age .
This is not because of a lack of food , but because of what we have talked a lot about today , namely increasing poverty .
Food safety and the guarantee of biological diversity must take precedence over commercial interests .
I believe that patents on living organisms are designed only to control the global food supply , specifically for commercial purposes and for no other reason .
I also want to see something about women in the report I hope the Commission will produce .
Women appear to be completely absent from all areas , especially development policy when , of course , we are not in reality absent at all .
Mr President , the debate we are holding today strongly underlines the need to discuss development policy in much broader terms than are involved in simply measuring the flow of aid .
However , the level of aid is only one of many instruments which significantly influence the development of poor countries .
A number of colleagues have today pointed to areas in addition to aid which are important and where contrasts and conflicts between different policy areas are very serious indeed .
The latter include trade , agricultural and fisheries policies .
These problems include questions of climate , health issues , biodiversity etc , and the problems are clearly exacerbated by globalisation , that is to say the new economy which is developing .
In this economy , the connection between different policy areas is that much more marked .
The report , or survey , which Mrs Maij-Weggen has demanded , showing how the various policy areas fit together and what the aforementioned conflicts appear to be , is naturally quite crucial .
I cannot help but wonder why the Commission has not done more .
The Commission is new and has to be given time , but the absence of such a survey suggests that there are powerful tensions within the Commission .
I can only hope that Mr Nielsen will be successful in the forthcoming discussions within the Commission .
In addition to a report of this kind , I should like to see a more positive analysis which could be ongoing in character .
An analysis of this kind should look not only at the flow of aid but also give comprehensive consideration to all the different types of aid and transfers of resources which influence poor countries .
These include technology , trade , cooperation in the field of research etc . It should be an extremely constructive contribution to the debate we are conducting .
Finally , Parliament recommends , in paragraph 6 of the draft resolution , that a working party should be established in order to bring about coherence .
I believe it is only a coincidence , but the Commissioner for the Environment is also , of course , to participate in this group .
Let us hope that the debate in which we are now engaged will prove to have been a watershed .
Policy so far has been characterised far too much by a process of giving with the one hand and taking away with the other .
There are a lot of people who will be watching further developments with great interest .
Mr President , the Seattle demonstrators argued that free trade is bad for the less- and least-developed countries , it is purely a rich country selfish interest .
Yet we might consider the rate of economic progress and the rate of eliminating poverty in countries such as India and Tanzania over the 40 or 50 years since they became independent .
There the theory went that protectionism and state intervention would preserve jobs , allow industry to adjust gradually and without pain .
It did not work ; poverty became worse than ever .
Is that not the lesson of the European Union itself and of the single market in particular ?
As Mr Nielson said , this is a fine example to those countries and regions aspiring to greater prosperity .
Yet preaching the benefits of free trade to the developing countries is not enough .
We also have to practise what we preach in our own accessibility for imports from these countries .
Parliament ' s resolution on the WTO negotiations advocated a free import policy by the EU .
It is quite clear that a lack of coherence of development policy with trade policy diminishes our development efforts and must also diminish the political regard of the developing countries for Europe and our fine words .
Mr President , in the last couple of days we have heard fine words about the need for greater coherence , coordination and effectiveness in the external aid programmes of the Community and of the Member States .
There is one relatively small area of activity with enormous public visibility which would be a litmus test of the Union ' s ability to match words with action .
Over recent years the Community has spent some EUR 200 million in mine clearance , assistance to victims and related activities .
The Member States have spent similar amounts .
But there is still enormous inefficiency and a lack of will to implement a strategy agreed with other members of the international community to overcome the anti-personnel landmine problem within a finite time span .
Mr Nielson identified the problems of lack of concerted action and the need for better complementarity with Member States .
This has been talked about for years .
The Commission needs to carry out internal organisational changes , strengthen the coherence and effectiveness of its actions , ideally with a properly resourced central mine action policy cell .
It would also need more rapid contractual and implementation procedures and an enhanced multiannual budget line and much improved management of its programmes .
A proper stock-taking of the effectiveness of mine action programmes needs to take place in each of the countries seriously afflicted by landmines .
It seems to me that the landmine issue encapsulates so many of the organisational , procedural , financial management and operational difficulties which have afflicted the Commission and the Union .
Are these afflictions of the past , or will we find that in this relatively compact and limited area the European Union is still unable to meet its aspirations ?
Mr President , Commissioner Nielson , the conclusion of the new ACP-EU Convention is an important step towards greater coherence .
For these are prerequisite to any development .
If these criteria are not adhered to , then development does not stand a chance
The same goes for Cuba , Mr Modrow .
I welcome the fact that Cuba is getting closer to joining this process .
But for this to happen , there are also going to have to be a few changes in Cuba .
After all , we are all familiar with the reports from Amnesty International .
Nonetheless , these are important criteria for the European Union .
There is a second issue I would like to raise .
We are discussing coherence here .
Many speakers have cited examples of the extent to which the various policies are not coherent .
In my view , however , the development policy itself needs to be more coherent too .
Nor is there coherence vis--vis the European taxpayer when we draft a development policy which is accommodated in the Union ' s budget but the EDF remains outside it .
This , to my mind , is also something that we should call upon the Intergovernmental Conference to do , i.e. establish the EDF firmly in the budget of the European Union .
First , the Committee on Development and Cooperation advocates the communitisation of the EDF ; clearly that is misguided .
In our view , cooperation is , and should remain , an intergovernmental exercise .
Why should we add to them ?
It is perfectly astounding that the Union could have negotiated an agreement on behalf of the Member States in which a fundamental section is quite simply left blank .
And let me say in passing , it is even more astonishing that the Council allowed it to .
As a result , we are now in the absurd position of negotiating from a position of weakness on vital aspects such as wine and agricultural production within the framework of an agreement which we have already signed .
The part of this agreement which blocks negotiations could mean that the Union ends up paying producers to stop producing sherry , port and a whole host of products which are purely and simply copies under international commercial law .
Imagine the potential cost of such a precedent .
Finally , a word on the general thinking behind the Corrie report .
Nowadays , let us face it , the Joint Assembly is seen as an obstacle to free international trade by the dogmatisers in Geneva and Washington .
It was a chance to reiterate that our original and exemplary mode of cooperation with the southern countries should be developed and strengthened .
The Corrie report missed this chance and we must , regrettably , punish it for losing so much .
.
( PT ) Mr President , by way of both a conclusion and a summary , I would like to highlight three key aspects of this debate .
First of all , many speakers stressed that globalisation accentuates regional imbalances and social inequality , and increases poverty .
This suggests that something must be done , failing which tensions will be aggravated and conflicts jeopardising international peace and stability will arise or worsen .
Secondly , it will be important to approach development policies from a different angle in this context , taking advantage of their capacity for correcting imbalances and reducing inequality .
I believe that the importance that everyone has attached to the European Union ' s role in international development policies is significant .
I note that some speakers also emphasised that responsibility for coherence in EU policies is not a matter for the Council , for the Commission or for Parliament alone .
For this reason it may be necessary , as I have stressed , to change the model and move away from the post-colonial model towards a more European approach to development policies .
. I sense some degree of frustration in many of the contributions to this debate .
I have given you a statement on behalf of the Commission which I think provides a useful background to this discussion .
We will furnish more detailed material relating directly to all the issues concerning coherence .
This discussion is not new .
We are currently working on it in the Commission and when that work is done I will report on it , as many have been asking if it will be possible to see the report on coherence .
I have read - and heard in the debate - that coherence is being used as some kind of a miracle formula that takes care of everything .
I think it is important to keep it as a relatively clearly defined discipline of trying to reduce inconsistencies where they really exist , and we certainly do have them .
I would , however , warn against the illusion that incoherence is the product of some kind of a mechanical deficiency in the system .
This exists , but it is only a small part of what we are discussing .
The major part of it has to do with well known established differences of interest between sexes and so on , and this is the problem .
Mr Mulder mentioned that no farmer will start producing anything if the price is too low .
This is true in our part of the world , but our partners and beneficiaries in Africa have a slightly different perspective .
They farm , not just for a living , but in order to live , and this makes a difference .
Subsistence farming is not based on price calculations , it is based on the hope of rain in the next season .
This does not apply to all farming in developing countries but to the poverty-focusing which we need to deliver better than so far .
From that perspective , what I am saying here is of deep relevance .
Other issues have been mentioned : cattle-farming in Namibia , tomatoes and milk powder in the Caribbean .
We should not be too masochistic .
There is a limit to how useful that is .
All these cases are characterised by the fact that they have been taken care of .
The intervention prices have been regulated , and the problems we had with beef in Western Africa and in Namibia were actually solved by reducing the intervention support .
These are real problems , but they have all been dealt with .
As regards the issue of cacao , chocolate : I repeat that the 5 % has to do with creating a basis for a living in the neighbouring countries .
What we are talking about here are the local nuts which are as important to the people collecting them and making a living out of them in Burkina Faso as coconuts for farmers in Ghana .
This is not a clear case of incoherence , it is more a case of a competition between suppliers .
What was mentioned concerning sugar in the Caribbean is more complicated .
In any case , this is a matter which we are currently dealing with .
I am committed to try to create a balance in all these issues and I would mention the achievement of the trade development and cooperation agreement with South Africa .
We certainly have done our share to solve that problem , and I sincerely hope that we now will have a soft landing and a peaceful implementation in the forthcoming years of that agreement .
Finally , I thank you again for this debate .
We have to reconcile those different approaches .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Nielson .
I have received eight motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with Rule 37 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 p.m.
Next session of UN Human Rights Commission
The next item is the statement by the Council on EU priorities for the next session of the UN Human Rights Commission on 20 March 2000 .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , as you know , the European Union played an active role in the 55th session of the Human Rights Commission held in Geneva in March and April 1999 .
The Union will continue to play this role at the 56th session of the Human Rights Commission to be held in Geneva in March and April .
The European Union will continue discussions on preparations for the 56th session of the Human Rights Commission at the next meeting of the Human Rights Group in March .
In particular , there will be a discussion of the possibility of tabling a draft resolution on the death penalty .
As you know , at the 55th session of the Human Rights Commission held last year , the United States decided , at a very late stage , to table a draft resolution on China .
This draft resolution was defeated by a Chinese no-action motion .
The European Union voted against that motion .
It is by no means certain that the European Union could have maintained a united front if this resolution had been put to the vote .
The United States of America will be tabling a draft resolution on China at the 56th session of the Human Rights Commission and are putting pressure on the European Union to support this draft resolution .
This initiative is being discussed within the Union , but with no hope of a decision in the near future .
In view of changes made to the membership of the Human Rights Commission , we estimate the vote on the no-action motion will be close .
It is therefore important this year , too , that the countries of the European Union should reach a consensus on the position to take in any vote on the resolution .
In this context it is important to note that the European Union regularly opposes requests by China that the human rights dialogue should automatically rule out tabling a resolution at the Human Rights Commission in Geneva .
The presidency will also present to the Chinese authorities a list of individual cases on which it intends to express its serious concern .
On the other hand , they will not give any ground on the pivotal questions of the single party system and territorial integrity .
On various occasions the European Union has reiterated to the Chinese authorities its disappointment with the results of the dialogue , and has stressed that it hoped for better outcomes in certain more sensitive areas .
Lastly , during the next Human Rights Commission there will also be a debate on rationalising the work of the Commission itself .
That is easier said than done - we are still discussing some of the toughest issues .
For example , discussion is taking place about many of the matters raised in Parliament ' s resolution and it is too early to predict the outcome in all cases .
It is not surprising that the debate is long and difficult .
That does not suggest any lack of commitment to the improvement of human rights but it does indicate the usual concern to get our approach right so that we really make a difference .
However , let me reflect that concern by referring to three controversial issues : the death penalty , Cuba and China .
I am going to be so unwise as to allow one or two personal reflections to creep into my remarks .
We are currently reviewing the options and possibilities for introducing a death penalty resolution in the Human Rights Commission .
This has always been a subject about which I personally have felt extremely strongly , I have always voted against the death penalty .
Spurred on by Amnesty International and others , one of the first decisions I took as Governor of Hong Kong was to abolish the death penalty .
We know what happened recently at the UN General Assembly .
The New York stage is different from Geneva .
Last year ' s debate in New York on sovereignty and humanitarian intervention was such a sensitive topic that it influenced all other issues .
It certainly influenced the debate on the moratorium on the death penalty .
The debate in Geneva , however , is more focused on human rights issues .
We may therefore stand a better chance of making progress there .
Secondly , Cuba .
I want to address this issue directly because we in Europe are criticised unfairly for not taking human rights there sufficiently seriously .
We are extremely concerned about moves by the Cuban Government over the last year that have further curtailed public freedom , moves like changes in the penal code and the scope of the death penalty .
We are also worried by the recent increase in the number of political detentions .
We are monitoring the human rights situation through the reports of NGOs and the work of our human rights working group based in the EU embassies in Havana .
We have regularly put our criticisms to the Cuban authorities , and this Parliament has done the same .
But I do not believe that the right approach is to try to isolate Cuba .
We want a fair and open society in Cuba , a Cuba which respects the principles of the market , the sanctity of contract and the rule of law .
We want to encourage a process of transition to democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms .
My views are exactly the same when it comes to the third subject with which I wish to deal , namely China .
Quite simply , I want us to be engaged with China .
It would be self-indulgent and self-defeating , as well as insulting to over a fifth of humanity , to want anything else .
I also want to see a China transformed by peaceful change into a free pluralist society which does not lock up democracy activists or religious believers .
So what should we do ?
Naturally we should trade enthusiastically with China and hope that we can welcome China into the World Trade Organisation on sensible terms .
It is a misnomer to talk about a World Trade Organisation which does not include China - or Russia , for that matter .
So what should be our attitude towards a Geneva resolution this year ?
As the presidency has noted , the Union as a whole is considering its position .
But I strongly suggest there are a number of factors of which the Member States ought to take proper account .
That is a point that deserves serious consideration .
Chinese leaders are in no doubt about our position on all these issues and on developments in Tibet .
We have made our views very clear to them .
While we all know that for many people in China there has been a real long-term improvement in their economic prospects and their social and economic liberties , there is a dark side to the picture as well .
Critics of tabling a resolution say that at least we now have a human rights dialogue with China .
Of course the dialogue has enabled us to identify and implement EU cooperation programmes in the human rights and legal spheres .
That is very welcome and I also believe that our village governance programme should help to promote democracy at grassroots level .
Naturally any dialogue as complex as the one on human rights is going to be a long-term process , but I wish I could point to more real gains .
The next dialogue in Lisbon on 25 February will be an important test .
It will show whether the dialogue is producing results or not .
What , finally , do we want to see as the first steps ?
Well , for example , we would like to see China move from signing the UN Conventions on Civil and Political Rights and on Social and Cultural Rights toward actually ratifying them .
I wish we were closer to that .
Where does all that leave us this year ?
I repeat that Member States will have to make up their minds .
I know that some people say we must have a better way of pressing our concern about human rights than through tabling resolutions .
But if that is true , then at the very least we need to be more imaginative and honest with ourselves in looking for that way forward .
If we are to rest our position on the human rights dialogue , then we need to be able to convince you , the NGO community and the public at large that it is actually getting somewhere .
That , in my judgement , is the challenge for the next few weeks .
I am grateful to the House for its concern about human rights around the world , and particularly in China .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Patten .
We will now interrupt the debate on the joint statement concerning the next session of the UN Human Rights Commission and proceed to the vote .
Welcome
I am delighted to welcome a delegation of the Hong Kong Legislative Council to Parliament .
( Loud applause )
VOTE
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 3 , 5 , 6 , 12 , 14 , 18 and 16 .
( The President declared the common position approved as amended )
( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
Before the final vote :
.
. I regret to say that I believe that the thought-out position I advanced yesterday is the correct position .
The comprehensive approach that the Commission intends to adopt on this issue will be brought forward as soon as possible under Article 152 where Parliament will have a codecision function .
That is the appropriate way of dealing with this .
Mr President , in accordance with Article 69 ( 2 ) , I call for referral back to committee .
The reason is that this concerns the approximation of a legal effect measure , as proposed by the Commission .
We take the view that this should form part of this approximation at this time , but the Commission will not adopt this .
( Parliament decided to refer the report back to committee )
Before the vote :
( Applause from the left . Heckling from the right )
.
( DE ) Mr Cohn-Bendit , I do not think that the European Parliament has any business intervening to such a huge extent in a country ' s domestic politics , in the way that you are doing .
I can speak for my party , which championed Austria ' s membership of the European Union in the early days .
As a political force , we serve to guarantee that Austria will continue to embrace European values .
I refuse to allow myself to be ostracised for internal and party political reasons !
This does not reflect the truth of the situation but is pure propaganda .
I utterly reject this !
( Loud , sustained applause from the centre and from the right , protests from the left )
Welcome
This is perhaps an appropriate moment to welcome to the official gallery , a delegation of four members of the Moroccan parliament , led by Mr Brahim Rachidi , Deputy Speaker of the Chamber of Representatives .
We are honoured by the visit of this delegation which is taking place shortly before the entry into force on 1 March 2000 of the Association Agreement between Morocco and the European Union .
On this historic occasion we welcome these developments in our relations and the prospects for closer ties between our two parliaments .
It is in this spirit that the delegation for relations with the Maghreb countries will be visiting Morocco on 20 to 22 March .
I hope the delegation has an excellent visit to Strasbourg .
( Loud applause )
( The sitting was suspended at 11.50 a.m. for a formal sitting on the occasion of an address by Mr Vaclav Havel , President of the Czech Republic and resumed at 12.50 p.m. )
VOTE ( continuation )
We shall now continue with the vote on the Stenzel report on the EQUAL initiative ( A5-0034 / 2000 ) .
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
Recommendation for second reading :
Before the vote :
. ( FR ) I welcome the quality and the ambition of this report on LIFE .
The Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection has proposed many amendments which have , for the most part , been retained in the common position adopted by the Council .
In my opinion , the most important amendments concern the following :
Improving the efficiency , transparency and methodology of procedures for the implementation of LIFE , procedures for information and the dissemination of such information to the public , and procedures for cooperation between recipients ;
The contribution that the projects supported by LIFE make to the sustainability of social and economic activities , and thus job creation .
I consider it crucial that the LIFE instrument should remain open to the participation of candidate countries from central and eastern Europe .
The other candidate countries ( e.g. Cyprus , Turkey , Malta ) my also take part in LIFE when agreements permitting such participation are signed with these countries .
The stumbling block in the negotiations with the Council lies , of course , in the amount of the total appropriation allocated for the third phase of the LIFE programme ( 2000-2004 ) .
The Commission proposal , ratified by the Council , is for EUR 613 million , whilst the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection considers that the budget should be EUR 850 million .
I support Mrs Lienemann ' s firm stance .
The financial allocation has not in fact been upgraded since the programme was created , even when the membership of the EC was increased to fifteen Member States following enlargement .
This type of procedure is common practice since the programmes or legislative measures are too often allocated budgets which do not live up to their ambitions !
Bge report ( A5-0023 / 2000 )
. ( FR ) As an MEP and , more importantly , as a consumer , I welcome the European Commission ' s proposal as a step in the direction of enhanced food safety within the European Union .
What is interesting abut this new legislation is that a specific legal basis is being created in order to combat scrapie .
What is even more satisfactory is that this was one of our main demands in our follow-up report on the mad cow crisis .
These rules are all the more welcome in that doubts still persist as regards scrapie .
A number of scientific hypotheses maintain that scrapie developed into BSE in cows and therefore caused the BSE epidemic .
It is a pledge to European citizens , who have voiced their concern , as regards European food policy , on many occasions .
The European Parliament has relayed their concerns and they have been heard .
As a result of the debates on the principle of precaution , traceability , responsibility and transparency , the European Commission has presented a White Paper on food safety .
This White Paper sets out several areas of concern and proposes the creation of an independent European Food Authority as part of a European strategy to restore consumer confidence .
It is up to us , as responsible Europeans , to prove that the single market and the free movement of goods and food safety are not mutually exclusive .
Cederschild report ( A5-0008 / 2000 )
Mr President , I voted for this initiative to amend the copyright legislation because I believe it is one of the most important sectors within the remit of the European Parliament .
. ( DA ) We oppose , on principle , the European Community ' s entering into treaties on copyright law on behalf of the Member States .
We are nonetheless aware that we are concerned here with a sharing of powers between the Member States and the Community .
At the same time , we appreciate the fact that the WIPO treaties are a significant step forward in the direction of guaranteeing the rights of distributors and practising artists .
We are therefore voting in favour of the recommendation .
In institutional terms , there has been no clarification of what role the EP is to play in the further development of the WIPO Treaties .
In addition , there is a clear tendency , in matters of international jurisdiction , more and more often to obtain a pure EU jurisdiction .
When it is , then , still not clear to what extent the EP can participate in the decision-making processes , the question of legitimacy arises .
Moreover , the concept of ' author ' is not defined in the Treaties .
One of the trickiest aspects is the public interest : will ratifying and applying WIPO lead to the privatisation of culture ?
And , finally , the matter of the relationship between TRIPs and WIPO must be clarified . Regarding this , too , there has been only silence by way of a response from the Commission .
If nothing helpful is forthcoming in the course of a parliamentary debate planned for clarification and orientation , then we must at least abstain from voting .
Graefe zu Baringdorf ( A5-0015 / 2000 )
.
( PT ) Food safety issues are in the spotlight following the BSE and dioxin scandals .
GMOs are still the subject of great uncertainty , both in terms of their environmental impact and of their effects on human and animal health .
The precautionary principle must therefore apply in the absence of scientific certainty .
The use of biotechnology needs to be studied in greater depth and not just " packaged " for immediate sale to boost the profits of a few multinationals in this sector .
The profit motive is very much behind the present food safety crises .
Furthermore , he considers that " genetically modified additives shall be clearly identified as such on any label or any document , official or otherwise , which is affixed to or accompanies the additive " .
This will facilitate greater control and traceability of such additives and guarantee the consumer ' s freedom of choice .
In view of the Montreal Protocol on Genetically Modified Organisms ( GMOs ) , I welcome the fact that the rapporteur has included these issues in his report , and I have therefore voted in favour of it .
Stenzel report ( A5-0034 / 2000 )
Mr President , I would very briefly like to give an explanation of vote , on behalf of the PPE Group on the EQUAL report .
We have followed a nominal list which was identical to that which we had agreed upon beforehand with the Socialist Group .
The Socialist Group has now changed its mind and this is why the report is not as clear as it would have been .
This is why we are abstaining .
We want to ensure that the EQUAL report , which is very important for refugees , the elderly , the handicapped and women , simply goes ahead .
It is regrettable that , due to the procedure , the report has received such unfavourable attention in this plenary session .
I am convinced that the rapporteur ' s nationality has played a certain role , which should not be of relevance in this Parliament .
This is actually in conflict with European values and certainly with the parliamentary values which are referred to so often in this Parliament .
These were our reasons for abstaining from the vote on this report .
We want EQUAL to go ahead .
We assent to the main thrust of it , but we deplore the procedure and especially the fact that some groups have exploited this procedure to their advantage .
The time has come for concrete measures and for putting theory into practice .
. ( DA ) We have voted in favour of the report on the communication from the Commission concerning the guidelines for EU initiative programmes ( CIP ) .
We think it is important to guarantee equal opportunities for the groups discussed in the report .
Nor did we vote for it because it is all too vague , all too pie in the sky .
The lessons we have learned under these actions must be built on .
EQUAL stands for " equality " .
It must be seen to deliver .
I welcome the proposed concentration on promoting new ways of combating discrimination and any form of inequality in the labour market .
I also favour the desire to move away from an out-dated format and to bring partners together in search of innovative ways to tackle unemployment .
There must be flexibility .
I deeply regret that only limited funds are available for this initiative .
In the last programming period 9 % of Structural Funds were available for Community initiatives .
The figure is now 5.35 % .
This means that funds must be used to achieve maximum effect and information on successful partnerships must be widely and rapidly disseminated .
This often meant that good projects did not lead to real job opportunities .
The positive experience of innovative actions of small promoters was jeopardised by their distance from the policy process .
I also stressed the need for prevention .
The involvement of the social partners also needs to be highlighted .
There must be flexibility and the administrative burden must be reduced as a priority .
There must be flexibility also for countries with small budgets .
While there are some aspects of the report which I believe would be better dealt with in a different way , overall I believe the report offers a flexible and sensible approach and should be supported .
.
Unfortunately , this involves a significant reduction in appropriations .
This is a great deal to build on such fragile foundations .
The Commission did not do that .
We hope that it will at least revisit the aspects that we have mentioned .
Lieneman report ( A5-0027 / 2000 )
Mr President , some of us in Parliament will remember the successful film , " Cocoon " , in which some elderly people drank a special kind of water that made them young again .
In my view , it is , therefore , immensely important to exercise extreme vigilance over the water we all drink and , consequently , to study and approve the provisions referred to here .
Apart from Amendment No 76 , which was an error , since I intended to vote in favour , the rest of my votes can be explained by means of the following fictional situation :
Opinion of an MEP from the south of Europe : " Nevertheless , this is a question of competitivity and equality of conditions " .
( End of fiction ) .
We cannot give equal treatment to countries which suffer from floods and droughts , such as the Mediterranean countries , and countries with northern levels of rainfall .
Furthermore , it would show a lack of solidarity to make transfers of water , between different river basins , practically impossible in the future .
Once more we must remember that we are undergoing a continental project for political union .
. ( FR ) Drinking , eating , washing , farming - water irrigates each act of our daily life and we treat it , wrongly , as an unfailing and inexhaustible resource .
A simple gesture such as turning on a tap seems to bring water straight from the source .
But the source is threatening to run dry .
Scientific studies are now no more than a formality : water will be the main resource at stake in years to come , starting tomorrow .
But tomorrow will be too late .
We have to lay down the rules of play today , before we all lose .
In adopting the water directive on Wednesday 15 February , the European Parliament confirmed its wish to protect surface water , coastal wasters , inland waters and groundwater .
We have thrown water a life-belt .
. ( FR ) It is with the greatest satisfaction that I welcome this ambitious proposal for a framework directive on water policy .
Specific directives will then be adopted within this framework .
The procedure involved in drafting this text was lengthy .
The proposal for a directive was amended twice , first in 1997 and then in 1998 .
A technical working party made up of Council and Parliament representatives met in January 1999 to try and reconcile the positions of the two institutions .
However , the Committee on the Environment has tabled numerous amendments , most of which I support .
The committee is also calling for an end to discharges or leaks of dangerous substances by 2020 , the final objective being to achieve zero input by 2020 .
All the standards and all the objectives relating to protected zones should be achieved within 10 years , not 16 .
I must say that I support these reduced deadlines , especially as provision is made for derogations .
As far as costs are concerned , I approve the proposal whereby Member States will have to ensure by 2010 that water pricing policies provide incentives for more sensible use of water resources .
. I wish to put on the official record my concerns with the Lienemann report and also the reasons for my vote .
We have all agreed on the need to put in place proper controls for the protection of our water supplies and also for the users of water .
There is much to be praised in the approach to the problem suggested by the rapporteur .
However , the question of taxation or charges for the use of water is a matter which , under the rules of subsidiarity , should be left to the Member States for decision .
In my belief it is incorrect to use such a crude tool as a common European charge for this issue .
In Ireland all the major users of water , commercial , industrial and agricultural , already pay for their use of water .
This is a decision of national and local government , and this is where all future decisions should be retained .
These are the main reasons for my vote .
I support the objectives of this community action in the field of water policy .
However , I do not support the proposal that domestic water users be charged for water used .
Water , in this context , is a commercial commodity .
It is an essential to life itself and people must have free access to sufficient supplies for normal daily life .
We all know that water is a commodity without which mankind cannot live and that it is imperative that its quality should be preserved .
But it is also essential to bear in mind that the various elements of water policy cannot be separated , and that action on this aspect will affect all the others .
The " physico-chemical and ecological quality of water " was highlighted during the debate and in the proposals , and the adverse effects of other aspects was , at best , touched upon marginally .
. ( FR ) We are disappointed by the Council ' s common position on this proposal for a framework directive .
It is minimalist on a number of points , especially with regard to the dates of entry into force of far too many provisions and the number of , and conditions for , implementing the derogations .
However , the main problem is with the definition of the objective which the European Union wishes to pursue with this text .
The objective is of course to create , first and foremost , a clear general framework which will allow the law in this area to be simplified .
However the Union should be seeking , beyond that , to improve the quality of both surface and groundwater .
Public health and the supply of drinking water are at stake , as are biological quality and diversity and the conservation of rural areas and species .
From this point of view , the common position is weak .
I should like to see our Parliament defend a more ambitious position than the Council ' s position , but I should also like that position to be equally credible .
The " zero input " and " zero pollution " requirement , including for substances naturally present in water , is not realistic .
On the contrary , I object to this systematically applied strategy .
It damages Parliament .
Our messages to our citizens and to the Council are muddled and lack credibility .
Overly strict , unrealistic environmental objectives will not be applied because they are unattainable .
Is that the message we want to send out ?
There is one other specific point which is dear to me : Member States should be able , if they so wish , to set up trans-national water transfers .
. ( ES ) We have seen a report concerned with water quality in Europe transformed into an instrument of commercial war .
We all agree that ensuring water quality is a hugely important objective , above all , given the adverse effects of developing a model of accelerated industrial growth on the natural environment .
It is clear that this model ' s logic of private profit has been harmful , and therefore the ' polluter pays ' principle is a suitable way of dealing with these consequences .
However , apart from these principles , there is the consideration that water , as a common resource , cannot be subjected to the rules of the market .
In fact , water becomes simply one more product subject to the laws of the market .
This means that the neoliberal model now reigns in the field of water .
. On behalf of the European Parliament Labour Party , I wish to indicate that while we have supported the major part of the Lienemann report , we have certain reservations .
The timetable set in the report of 2020 is unrealistic and impracticable , but the timetable set by the Council of 2034 is too far in the distance .
We believe therefore that conciliation will set a more realistic date .
We have voted against Amendments Nos 25 and 72 which would require the achievement of minimal anthroprogenic pollution in all groundwater .
We believe this requirement is unrealistic in view of the very high cost and extremely long timescales involved in restoration to a near pristine standard .
The foregoing is the reason for our vote .
. ( FR ) Water is a renewable but limited natural resource and needs to be properly managed .
The framework directive on water policy will become the cornerstone of Community policy in this area .
It has clear , ambitious objectives .
We share them .
It sets environmental parameters close to zero .
But we feel that it would be wiser not to set unrealistic deadlines which neither our governments nor our industries will be able to meet .
We need a timetable , by all means , but a more gradual timetable .
The legal obligation to achieve a zero input situation , i.e. to stop discharges within 20 years , would in fact mean a ban on all identified substances .
Such provisions may well cause serious problems in cross-border areas and in candidate countries , thereby complicating enlargement .
I should like , naturally , to refer to a specific sector to which I am very closely attached , i.e. agriculture , the main water-consuming sector .
Agriculture must accept its share of ' polluter pays ' charges , and has in fact already started to do so , but account must also be taken of its special characteristics and constraints , especially in arid regions .
As regards the amendments concerning radioactive substances , I am of course in favour of controls , but the question arises of the legal basis , which comes under the Euratom Treaty .
Andersson report ( A5-0033 / 2000 )
The Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities has not been able to vote in favour of the Andersson report .
Now , the concept of " uniform harmonisation " is one of those muddled expressions which totally obfuscates the integration process in question .
No-one would benefit from this type of harmonisation " .
The situation , however , is that a social model is being established whose real purpose is harmonisation , and uniform harmonisation into the bargain .
Finally , paragraph 7 emphasises that " the social convergence process must be accompanied by an effective and ambitious fiscal coordination " .
And , in this regard , we approach the heart of the matter .
This project , with its social harmonisation , does not constitute social policy .
It is therefore important for us to emphasise that we cannot support a proposal whose essential rationale is to extend the EMU project .
I hope that Parliament will soon have the authority to legislate on pensions .
The elderly are waiting for the European Parliament to make it possible for them to live more comfortably and with greater dignity than they do now .
The countries who have made less progress in this field should attain the same level as the countries within the European Union that guarantee better social protection .
The report states that modernisation does not mean a reduction in the level of social protection but , rather , better use of available resources .
No-one would benefit from this situation .
( SV ) We consider that the report contains many practical proposals , which we support , but we are very critical of the convergence approach which permeates the report .
In particular , we oppose the sections which deal with fiscal harmonisation and with the Commission ' s becoming involved in telling the Member States what to do ( see , for example , paragraph 7 ) .
. ( FR ) The current difficulties faced by our social security systems derive mainly from a shortage of income as the result of unemployment , poverty and an ageing population rather than from excessive spending .
The policies of the European Union also have much to answer for in this situation .
Of course we need to modernise these systems .
In France , in particular , we need to stop making labour alone fund medical insurance and pensions .
We also need to reform archaic management methods which create injustices , chaos and waste .
More importantly , we need a family policy to promote demographic growth and an economic , monetary and fiscal policy to promote growth and reconquer the internal market so that we can create jobs .
Social protection should be an expression , first and foremost , of national solidarity and it comes first and foremost , exclusively in fact , under the jurisdiction of the nation state .
Social protection should be based on the principle of national and Community preferences .
Otherwise it is merely the financial processing , at the expense and to the detriment of European citizens , of the intolerable social situations which result from immigration .
. ( SV ) We have abstained from voting for Jan Andersson ' s report on a coordinated strategy for modernising social security .
We are basically well disposed towards the European Union .
As Swedish Liberals , we see European integration as an opportunity to find solutions to cross-border problems such as the environment , trade , movement across borders , human rights and conflict management .
In these areas , Europe ' s democracies have a chance to show the world that cooperation leads to peace and increased prosperity .
We also believe in the principle of subsidiarity whereby decisions are to be taken as close as possible to those they affect .
That is why we are actively pursuing the issue of a constitution for the European Union where the distribution of responsibilities is clear for all to see .
It must be perfectly clear to all citizens that the EU will only become involved in those issues it is best qualified to deal with , which is to say cross-border issues .
All other questions ought to be dealt with at local , regional or national levels .
Social policy is an example of an area in which the EU ought only to have limited powers , except where it is a question of freedom of movement for people within the Union .
Each Member State ought to have full responsibility for , and the right autonomously to decide upon , its social security systems .
Health care , child care and care of the elderly are clear examples of areas which are not obviously transnational .
The same applies to labour market policy .
We do not believe that common European legislation in these areas is a solution to the problems involved in designing systems of social security .
For us , it is important that the EU should instead concentrate on just a few areas in which it can really be of use .
That does not , however , prevent the Member States from cooperating and exchanging ideas in the social sphere .
Equality and social security are issues which are traditionally high on our Liberal agenda .
We wholeheartedly support , at national level , many of the ideas presented in Mr Andersson ' s report .
There are three main aspects that need to be highlighted . The first is that economic policy , employment and social protection should be strictly interdependent in a way that is directly proportional .
The second concerns the management of welfare systems and those who operate them .
Nowadays , it is becoming more commonplace , as well as efficient , to operate complementary and integrated protection schemes .
But , in our view , that does not mean that the role of the public authority should be reduced , either as regards the universality or , we hope , the quality of the basic social protection provided .
The third aspect concerns the principle of subsidiarity that underpins the European Union .
Today , a common strategy for social protection is sadly lacking , and the current systems are , in the main , run according to the actions and unity of purpose of individual Member States .
Therefore , any modernisation process has to take account of economic , employment and social protection differences between the various countries , whether Member States or candidate countries .
It is , after all , a matter of civilisation , progress and common dignity for the present European Union and a future enlarged community .
. ( SV ) The basic values common to the Member States of the European Union are based upon democracy , human freedoms and rights , and a social market economy .
These values must be given expression in the form of solidarity with the weaker groups in our society and in the world around us .
In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity , it is the Member States themselves which devise their own social security systems .
Inhabitants of countries in the European Union ought , nonetheless , to be able to benefit from a minimum network of social protection , irrespective of which country they live in .
The report seeks " effective and ambitious fiscal coordination " , without going on to define more specifically what this means .
As we see it , such a position constitutes unduly large interference in national fiscal policy and cannot , therefore , be supported .
We are therefore voting against paragraph 7 of the report .
The report emphasises the social dimension of European cooperation , which is something to be welcomed .
It is nonetheless important to clarify what role the EU is to play , and not to play , with regard to social security .
Clarification of this kind is missing from the report , which is unfortunate .
We agree with many of the rapporteur ' s remarks but do not at all share his optimism about the Commission ' s and the Council ' s intentions and plans concerning social protection .
Its sole purpose is to pave the way and create the right conditions for cutting public expenditure on social security , and for flexibilising social protection itself .
It is well known that the level and quality of employment determines the quality of social security systems .
That concludes the explanations of vote .
( The sitting was suspended at 1.55 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m. )
Next session of UN Human Rights Commission ( continuation )
The next item is the debate on the Council declaration on the establishing of the EU priorities for the next session of the UN Commission on Human Rights ( 20 March 2000 ) , including the situation in China .
Mr President , I regret the absence of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council .
This is a Council declaration , and I believe that it would perhaps have been useful for them to have been present for the rest of the debate .
Following the statement of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council and the Commission , I believe we can all agree that the current situation with regard to human rights is far removed from what we would all like to see .
I hope that these problems can be tackled and dealt with in the context of the current discussion of the European Union Charter on Fundamental Rights .
In my opinion , this resolution contains a series of essential points , but I would like to stress one in particular , that is , the need for greater coordination between the European Union and the United Nations .
In order to make our actions effective , we must implement a type of coordination in practice which does not exist at present .
Soon , in May , the European Commission intends to present a communication on the development of the role of human rights and democratisation in the Union ' s external relations .
I believe that this should be applied to all areas , in particular also the budgetary area .
Lastly , I must recognise the important contributions made by civil society in this area , as well as the often underestimated role of the numerous non-governmental organisations who act on the ground .
The Union must make every effort to provide all the necessary support for them to carry out their important work .
We must get away from the situation where we are only aware of human rights when they hit the headlines or abuses are being punished .
The role of Parliament is to meet the issue of human rights head on , particularly at the level of prevention .
In that sense , we need to be able to export a culture based on legality and respect for the law .
It seems to me that we have finally reached the end of a long period during which a whole raft of treaties appeared and were duly signed .
Nowadays , there are many , perhaps too many , treaties on human rights . If those treaties remain mere expressions , they are no more than useless depositories of people 's thoughts .
In my view , we should be evaluating and modifying some of the political instruments we use to measure the status of human rights globally .
In particular , we should be updating the areas where human rights need to be safeguarded .
Globalisation could easily come to be regarded as a harmful process .
All those aspects should be part of a rationale , a discourse and a contribution which the European Union should bring to human rights .
That is what we hope for and is the cordial message that we are sending our governments , even if it goes against their interests .
Mr President , one of the saving features of this Parliament is that here we practise a consistent and active human rights policy : the flag flies high , as Mrs Malmstrm put it .
At the same time , however , we shut our eyes to the Union ' s own problems : to the violence , inequality , and fourth world reality , which is part of everyday life in the EU .
It is absolutely right that we pay serious attention to the violations of human rights that are to be the subject of talks in Geneva .
The rhetoric that we use , however , often smacks of smugness , verging on the sort of narcissism we associate with human rights attitudes in North America .
Let us , in particular , focus attention on the re-admission clauses , which present a threat to the Geneva Convention and which should be blocked .
I fear that we are now moving in the opposite direction , towards European exclusiveness and apartheid .
Mr President , Commissioner , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , in my view , the question which needs to be raised in Geneva this year is certainly not the death penalty .
We have already had three resolutions on the death penalty approved in Geneva .
We failed at the General Assembly last year on a fallacious pretext , I refer to article 2.7 , which we are otherwise happy to adopt for all other texts .
The question of the death penalty should therefore be raised at this year ' s General Assembly , certainly not at the Geneva session .
As Mr Patten said , and I would like to thank him for the positions which he defended , the crucial point is China .
There is regression in every sector of Chinese civil society .
It is a fact : China is the major threat , the major threat to us , the threat which we must confront , the threat to peace .
It is the antithesis of democracy and you know as well as I that the Chinese , the Chinese leadership , is Communist first and Chinese second .
China likes doublespeak .
Until we have a firm position , we will achieve nothing with the Chinese authorities .
I think we need to seize the opportunity .
We need to associate ourselves with the American initiative .
We need to table a strong text and that text needs to be adopted .
We need to work .
Mr President , I would like to try to put a different perspective to this .
As you know , on Monday an unmanned spacecraft went into orbit around a peanut-shaped asteroid called Eros which is not very far from earth .
Photographs show us that there is no life on the asteroid , but much further out in our galaxy , the Milky Way , there are about 300 billion stars , many with planets .
Beyond the Milky Way there are 300 billion other galaxies with countless stars and planets .
It is probable , therefore , that there is a lot of life out there , and much of it much more advanced than we are .
What do they see ?
They see a beautiful planet , teeming with life , but they see its atmosphere being polluted and warming up .
They see forests being cut down and deserts spreading .
Of the living creatures , they can see many animals that are treated cruelly , rare ones becoming extinct for ever .
How do they see the currently dominant species - that is us ?
Well , they see the planet 's resources being unevenly spread .
What do they see about the relationships between human beings ?
They see us killing each other .
They see us restricting each other 's liberties .
They see a never-ending series of local wars .
They see some of our children drafted into the army as soldiers , or treated as prostitutes or slaves .
They see unequal treatment of men and women , of people of different ages , of minorities , of people of different coloured skins , of races , of beliefs , of immigrants , even neighbours .
We all know the picture .
The UN Convention on Human Rights 50 years ago was an attempt to correct this .
We should salute it - and I think we do .
Only in Europe are human rights enforceable in law .
Here in the European Parliament some of the Members do not want the Charter of Rights , which is being discussed at the moment , to become enforceable in law .
I say : shame on them !
Human rights should be enforceable in law in every country of the world . That is the goal which we have to work towards .
Much , as Commissioner Patten said , remains to be done .
Mr President , human rights are universal , indivisible , interrelated and interwoven .
This well-known phrase , which is taken from the conclusions of the UN World Conference on human rights of 1993 , is known off by heart by many .
That is positive .
But what about the human rights policy within the EU itself ?
Does it reflect this vision of coherence ?
In fact , does the European Union have a human rights policy ?
No , Mr President , I am talking about the lack of human rights policy within the European Union itself .
A new government has come into power in Austria , comprising a political party which has sent out a message of racism and intolerance vis--vis minorities .
There is , therefore a need for a fully-fledged human rights policy for and by the European Union , a policy which promotes and enforces human rights within the EU itself .
Such policy should comprise various components .
Firstly : a regulatory framework is needed , which spells out very clearly the rights which the EU intends to secure for its citizens .
This is a political question which , in the short term , requires an answer from the IGC and this Parliament .
Thirdly : it will need to be made clear for each of the EU institutions where the responsibility for human rights policy lies within the European Union and what the tasks and competences are that this entails .
The Commission and the Council will each have to decide for themselves what these might be .
This Parliament is excluded from this , for our Rules of Procedure stipulate that the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs carries this responsibility .
Mr President , this Parliament is fragmented and divided .
I think that this will benefit our credibility in the UN Human Rights Committee .
I do not know if he is still present and can hear me .
In a word , I shall believe your talk about human rights in Europe , fellow Members , when you acknowledge that your political opponents have the same rights as you allow yourselves .
I shall believe your talk about human rights in China when you name the real cause of the problem , i.e. Communism .
Mr President , the principle of universal human rights is undoubtedly one of the most important political legacies of the 20th century .
The holocaust , fifty years ago , led to the need to lay down a number of fundamental rights and freedoms .
Since the end of the cold war , compliance with human rights has also become a condition for international cooperation .
Leaders violating these principles now face international criticism , sanctions and are even brought to trial , such as ex-dictators like Mr Pinochet have experienced .
These developments are encouraging but do not detract from the fact that the situation of human rights in the world remains very disquieting .
Especially in situations of war , civilians are given less consideration all the time .
It seems contradictory .
Never before in history has humanitarian right been so well developed .
Never before have so many international treaties been ratified by so many countries .
Yet the most basic rules of conduct are being flouted on a massive scale and there are more civilian victims than there were a century ago .
Women are systematically raped .
Children are conscripted by force and deployed in battle .
Excesses are no longer the exception , they have unfortunately become the rule .
This applies today to no fewer than thirty conflicts worldwide .
Too late , too selective and too fragmented : this is how one could describe the human rights policy of the international community .
Fifty years later , we are still unable to prevent genocide .
We should therefore direct more attention to monitoring and conflict prevention as a matter of urgency .
Control of the arms trade and improved media control are essential in this .
The human rights policy is also too selective .
The months of NATO bombardments of Kosovo and the mediation attempts in the Middle East are in stark contrast to international apathy with regard to the conflicts in Africa .
I cannot shake off the impression that , when it comes to human rights , despite all the rhetoric , Africa does not feature on top of the agenda of the Portuguese Presidency .
This is something which I very much regret .
The impression that Africans get , namely that they are inferior world citizens , is not unfounded .
I would like to warn against a blurring of standards in the assessment of human rights situations in Africa , where violations are viewed as a necessary evil .
But above all , the human rights policy is too fragmented .
We are unable to draft a common strategy within the international communities or Europe .
Take Sudan .
The international community is sending conflicting messages to this country .
Britain has re-opened its embassy in Khartoum .
Canada has invited the Sudanese for peace talks .
Europe puts the rebels in the South under pressure to negotiate and at the same time , Americans isolate the regime and support the rebels at military level .
There is a need for more coordination , more exchange of information and a more coherent approach whereby any raised bids are avoided .
Only then can we follow in the footsteps of the founders of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights .
Mr President , I would like to start with the fact that if words could solve the problems we could all pack up and go home .
But unfortunately , as we speak today in the safety of this Chamber , human rights abuses are occurring throughout the free world .
Sometimes the more we speak , the less we hear - motions : words ; conventions : words ; treaties : words - if we are not careful , words themselves become a substitute for real action .
Words framed in inclusive and liberating documents become treaties and conventions which are often paraded as a testimony to a country 's respect for and adherence to human rights .
Yet words spoken , written or signed are not in themselves enough .
Look at the signatories to the conventions on human rights and minorities and then compare the treatment received by such minorities , groups and individuals - the list is shameful and shaming .
The defamation of minorities in newspapers and other media fuels discrimination .
Even within the EU citizens still suffer human rights violations and a breach of our conventions .
Every day in the press misinformation and misrepresentation are used to deny some minorities equality before the law and to denigrate ethnic minorities .
Quite frankly a hierarchy of oppression has been created .
And so long as people do not have equality before the law , this inequality will lead to discrimination and human rights will be eroded .
In our enlargement process in the EU we have rightly placed the emphasis on human rights and the protection of minorities .
We must not waiver in that commitment .
But we must also hold up the mirror to ourselves and recognise our own inadequacies .
Yes , conventions have been signed , but action is needed .
I would recommend to you ongoing audits of human rights practices , eternal vigilance , not just outside our borders but within .
That is why I would welcome an annual Member State report from each individual state which would have to record any charges against it and the action taken .
Because what happens in each Member State happens to every single one of us .
What happens in another part of the world affects us .
Pinochet in Chile is as relevant as Haider in Austria .
Human rights and civil liberties are inextricably linked .
Human rights do not exist in isolation , they are connected to our development policies , our economic policies , our home affairs policies , indeed they are at the very heart of our democratic functions .
I would repeat what Mr Patten said : we must engage , we must inform , educate and thereby effect real and lasting change .
Mr President , " Europe stands for ideals , values and principles .
We must emphasise Europe ' s spiritual history . Together , we must re-establish the values which unite Europe .
Spiritual values have been disseminated from Europe throughout the globe .
We must live with our consciences . "
These were the words spoken three hours ago in this Chamber by the President of the Czech Republic , Vaclav Havel .
We should be grateful that there are Heads of State like Vaclav Havel in our Europe .
I wish to discuss two matters .
First of all , civil society .
Vaclav Havel stated that , in Eastern Europe , the Communist regimes methodically destroyed civil society : national movements , churches and the independent trade unions .
The same is happening in China in connection with the Falun Gong movement and with the Catholic and Protestant churches . It is happening with Buddhism in Tibet .
We must never forget to defend civil society .
I also want to mention the death penalty .
Like my own country , Sweden , the EU bases its view of human beings upon the equal , unique and inviolable value of every human .
On the basis of this principle , human beings should always have the chance to redeem themselves .
Try telling that to the governments of the United States , Russia and China .
Mr President , President-in-Office , Commissioner , I believe the approach of EU Member States at Geneva should be to prioritise the situations in Kosovo , Mexico , Saudi Arabia , Sierra Leone and China .
In relation to China , we should not be dissuaded from raising the issue simply because discussions on it may be blocked .
However , it is imperative that the EU speaks and acts as one , and threats of trade sanctions should strengthen rather than weaken our resolve .
However , if full expression is to be given to the decisions which may eventually be taken at Geneva , then the office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights must be provided with the necessary resources .
The financial resources of the United Nations are spread very thinly and because of this many crucial programmes are dependent on voluntary contributions to keep them afloat .
Resources are also needed for promoting practical cooperation and human rights , strategic planning , the establishment of priorities and strengthening communications between the donor community and member states of the United Nations .
To this end the High Commissioner recently launched an annual appeal for USD 53 million to enable her office to carry out these tasks .
The European Union and its Member States should take the lead in providing a significant portion of these funds .
Mr President , this debate is mainly concerned with the preparations for the forthcoming annual UN Human Rights Convention and the Commission ' s and Council ' s efforts in this respect .
I would first of all like to say that I am very pleased with the contributions made by Mr Patten and the Minister , and I welcome the fact that both China and Cuba are on the agenda .
Cuba is the last stronghold of dictatorship in South America and we must be mindful of this , with all due sympathy to Cuba .
It is a dictatorship and hence not a democracy .
I would , during my two minutes , like to draw attention to two countries which are close to my heart .
The first country is Indonesia .
We are naturally delighted that Indonesia is under new rule and that Mr Wahid and Mrs Sukarnoputri are the new President and Vice-President .
We are also pleased that the situation in Timor is slowly moving in the right direction .
But I can report that in the Moluccas , an area just north of Timor , the violence is still not under control .
This has claimed thousands of lives over the past two years .
Tens of thousands of people are on the run .
The situation is badly managed .
I know that tomorrow , or the day after tomorrow , an important programme will be shown on Dutch television , in which an appeal will be made for observers .
My urgent request , which has been echoed many times in resolutions , is the following : could you not confer so that observers can be sent to the Moluccas ?
Surely thousands of people killed , thousands wounded and tens of thousands on the run is enough .
My second country - I will be brief as Mr Patten knows this country very well - is Burma .
Surely we cannot just keep silent about Burma .
I have the feeling that that country is gradually being relegated to oblivion .
For ten years now , the elected President of that country has been under house arrest .
And for ten years now , its parliament has been out of action .
Numerous MPs have been killed or have fled the country and only a few are left in Burma .
There are hundreds of thousands of refugees in Thailand and India from Burma and yet it seems that that country is no longer given any attention .
In my opinion , Burma should be put back on the agenda , too , certainly in the wake of Indonesia ' s U-turn .
Surely we cannot tolerate the fact that Mrs Aung San Sui Kyi feels completely left in the lurch , even by Europe .
My request is , in fact , to put this country back on the top of the agenda .
Mr President , Mr President-in-Office , Commissioner , economic clout cannot be the only factor that determines the European Union ' s status in the world .
One of the EU ' s distinguishing features is our systematic approach to human rights , as exercised both within the Union and by our partners .
By the same token we have recently opposed arms sales to Indonesia , a stance that the Council unfortunately did not take into account .
But it is not just a question of preventing or putting a stop to sickening instances of aggression perpetrated by individuals or institutions against those in a weaker position .
Justice needs to be done in Indonesia .
Justice needs to be done in East Timor .
President Wahid needs our support to cope with the difficult situation he is faced with .
The specific reference in this resolution to East Timor , on the initiative of the PPE Group , is a timely one .
Someone must be held to account for the events that took place there , some of which I saw with my own eyes as a representative of this House ; they cannot go unpunished .
This is an intolerable situation which must cease as a matter of urgency .
.
Indeed it was this subject which led the development ministers of the fifteen Member States to meet in Lisbon for discussions specifically on the new era these relations have entered .
For all these reasons I thought it essential to reply directly to Mr Van Hecke ' s question on this issue .
. Mr President , this has been a very useful debate .
One or two speeches have referred to specific issues which we are well advised to think about very carefully .
For example , Mrs Maij-Weggen referred to both Indonesia and Burma and made some important points about both those countries and the human rights situation there .
What I would like to focus on very briefly are one or two themes which ran through our debate .
One of the very first speakers , Mr Wuori , spoke of the remarks made earlier today by Mr Havel .
It was a remarkable speech and I hope that Mr Gollnisch , who is no longer able to be with us , was able to hear that speech as well .
I also hope that , if there is any life in outer space , as has been speculated by Mr Newton Dunn , it was tuned in to Mr Havel ' s speech as well .
How do we implement what the Treaties say in all those words about development assistance programmes ?
One or two honourable Members , Mr Ferber and Mr Cushnahan , spoke about the gap between rhetoric and reality .
Mr Cashman said , which is right in a sense , that words are no substitute for real action .
Of course , words can make a bit of a difference , a point that was made by Mrs Malmstrm .
I think after her speech she will receive a cascade of letters from the Chinese authorities .
She will be able to fill a filing cabinet with letters about what is claimed to be the real situation in China .
I think she was reflecting the views of many non-governmental organisations , many people who admire Chinese civilisation but are concerned about what is happening in China today .
There is also the question which was referred to by Mr Salafranca , who I am sorry is unable to be with us at the end of this brief but useful debate .
There is also the question of our overall policy on human rights and the relationship between human rights and foreign policy .
It is immensely important , and if I had not thought that already , having listened to the remarkable speech by Mr Havel earlier in the day I would have certainly come to that conclusion .
It has been a useful debate .
I hope we can have further debates like this .
I have received 7 motions for resolution , pursuant to Rule 37 ( 2 ) , to close the present statement .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place on Thursday .
Cyprus and Malta
The next item is the joint debate on :
the Council statement on the position of the European Union on developments concerning Cyprus ;
Mr Seixas da Costa has the floor on behalf of the Council .
At the beginning of December 1999 , the first round of negotiations were held in New York , after an interruption of several years in negotiations between the Cypriot communities in the north and south of the island .
These negotiations took the form of indirect discussions mediated by the UN special representative , lvaro de Soto .
A further round was held in January this year , starting on 31 January , and a third round is scheduled to start on 23 May in New York .
There is a possibility , which has not yet been absolutely confirmed , that continuous and direct discussions may take place , with work continuing until September this year .
These discussions essentially cover four areas : security , the structure of government , territorial adjustments and issues relating to refugees and compensation , as a result of the situation following the partition of the island .
This is the position of the Secretary-General of the United Nations and it will therefore have to form part of our future analysis .
Furthermore , the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union has decided , following the example of previous presidencies , to appoint a representative to establish contacts with the various parties involved in this issue .
This representative has already contacted all these parties and has , in close cooperation with the representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations , been monitoring and assisting with the work of the various rounds .
There is also another important aspect which I referred to at the beginning of my statement , and this relates to Turkey ' s role in helping the north of the island to prepare for accession .
This window of opportunity involves combining various factors , one of which - and let us be frank about this - is the nature of the relationship between Turkey and the European Union .
This is key as regards the future of this issue .
It may also give the European Union access to data enabling it to justify accession , as part of its efforts to assess accession conditions .
Furthermore , this means that we in the Council - and I think that Parliament will join us in this - should encourage the Commission ' s involvement in this undertaking .
It is essential for us to send the Commission a message of confidence about its role in this area .
As I said at the beginning , the conclusions of the Helsinki European Council last December have had a visible impact on the way the positions of the various parties to this process have developed .
The Nicosia Government has expressed its satisfaction with the Helsinki conclusions , which open up the way to accession to the European Union without solving the partition of the island beforehand .
Nevertheless , I have to say that the same authorities have expressed their concern about the pressure they may come under to resolve the issues raised by partition , which will evidently imply some concessions .
This is related to developments in the sphere of displaced people and the possibility of a new arrangement regarding displaced people should a different solution be found for the island .
We believe that this has created the framework for a positive outcome .
As far as we , the Council presidency , are concerned , we will continue to follow these developments very closely , and we will certainly cooperate with the Secretary-General and his personal representative on this matter .
In particular , we will make known the flexibility that both parties have demonstrated on this issue .
Mr President , we have listened to the statements by the Council and the Commission and I would like to make the following observations .
For example , I would not refer to the government of Nicosia .
It is the Cypriot Government , Mr President-in-Office , not the government of Nicosia .
On the other hand , the way that the issue of the end of the protocols and the pre-accession strategy has been addressed so far creates some doubts for us .
Mr President , we are required under the advisory procedure to debate a proposal for a Council regulation on the implementation of operations within the framework of the pre-accession strategy for Cyprus and Malta .
This proposal is similar to the proposal submitted for other candidate countries and , once it is implemented , will replace the financial protocols which have now expired .
Pre-accession instruments are designed to provide technical and financial support for efforts by candidate countries to meet the demands of the Community acquis .
It was pointed out , during the discussion of Mr Brok ' s excellent report in committee , that both countries can also benefit from the MEDA budget line for horizontal projects of regional interest .
I would be grateful if the Commissioner could explicitly confirm that .
The declarations made on the Cyprus question by the Council and the Commission were therefore most opportune and I should like to thank the President of the Council and Commissioner Verheugen .
In other words , accession should not be held hostage to a political solution .
The two processes are separate processes .
This unequivocal position on the part of the European Parliament gave rise to a certain degree of controversy .
The presence of these representatives will not prejudge the final political solution in any way whatsoever .
On the contrary , it will allow the interests of all concerned to be highlighted as and when Cyprus joins the European Union and prepares for a turning point in its history .
However , I also think that we in the EU should be making a constructive contribution .
I also think - as has already been mentioned - that there are certain problems with the financing arrangements , which we must solve .
There is , of course , the question of pre-accession aid , and this belongs in category seven .
Resources should therefore be set aside from category seven , where a review of the financial perspectives must be carried out .
This is the crux of the matter .
The most important thing is that a multi-annual programme be guaranteed , and in the correct category , so that it might be possible to begin making plans where Cyprus and Malta are concerned .
It is clear that the window of opportunity mentioned by the presidency should be exploited to the full .
But we are also convinced that , despite improved relations between the Turkish and Greek populations , it is not enough .
The conflict in Cyprus will only be resolved through improved relations between the two communities with a view to establishing a federation in the - we hope - not too distant future .
In particular , we should be working towards establishing genuine freedom of movement and resolving the problems of demilitarising and disarming the island .
I have listened to the somewhat equivocal talk and silences on the part of the Council which , in my view , need clarifying .
I think that we need , first and foremost , to bear the main point of reference for any international community in such cases in mind , i.e. the resolutions of the United Nations .
Cyprus should be one sovereign state , with a single international personality and single citizenship and this state should be demilitarised .
The international community has thus indicated that it rejects any act accomplished by force .
Secondly , the European Union stands to gain , in my view , by minimising the scope for interpretation of the position laid down by the Helsinki European Council .
The solution to the Cypriot problem cannot be a precondition to Cyprus ' s accession to the Union , as Mr Poos has reminded us .
If it were , Turkey would have a sort of right of veto over the accession of Cyprus to the European Union , which is , of course , unacceptable .
Thirdly , we must not , in turn , allow the position taken by the Helsinki European Council to temper our efforts to resolve the Cypriot question before Cyprus joins the Union .
Mr President , there is a general consensus of opinion that financial aid to Cyprus and Malta is important .
The big question , however , is from what budget heading should this aid be financed ?
The Council and Commission have suggested deleting the protocols under category 4 .
This is in line with the budget order issued by Parliament in December last .
The rapporteur is now making reference to this and proposes classing Cyprus and Malta under category 7 .
The Committee on Budgetary Control has even suggested postponing approval of the Brok report until the Council agrees to increase the financial ceilings for category 7 .
This is an extremely risky strategy .
In fact , the financial protocols cannot go ahead without a vote in Parliament .
Cyprus and Malta will thus become the victims of a political game between the Council and Parliament regarding the height of the ceilings .
Moreover , what is the real significance of financial ceilings if they are increased for every new action ?
I would therefore advocate that the EUR 15 million in category 4 be dropped , in line with the Commission ' s proposal .
A multiannual budget of the Commission later on in the year , may give a decisive answer regarding credits for the coming years .
Mr President , all over the world work is being done to resolve long-standing conflicts and bring together communities divided by history and by old tribal enmities and hatreds .
I hope that the decisions taken at Helsinki lead to progress on the Cyprus issue . I hope this signals a new era of hope for Cyprus .
I hope that Turkey begins to play a constructive role in the Cyprus issue .
I welcome the renewed warmth in relations between the Greek Government and the Turkish Government .
I hope that has an encouraging effect on the Cyprus talks .
Mr President , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , Commissioner Verheugen , the regulation on accession aid is not exactly an advertisement for coherent work on the part of the Commission .
Rather , the way in which these aid measures have been cobbled together smacks of amateurism to me .
This applies both in terms of the substance and the financial aspect .
In my view , it will hardly enable us to present the accession activities conducted by the Union to the citizens of Cyprus and Malta as evidence of the fact that it is worth their while joining .
As Vaclav Havel rightly said today , the European Union will be judged on its political qualities according to what it can do for the individual .
As far as the citizens are concerned , it is what a regulation can do for them that matters .
We will not exactly win any awards with this regulation as far as that is concerned .
It is makeshift and contains heteronomous paragraphs , which is no way to set a shining example .
The quality of an aid package is assessed according to the following criteria : is it decentralised , is it transparent , is it accessible to the citizens and does it work ?
Nonetheless , as far as the divided island of Cyprus is concerned , overall , this pre-accession strategy is bound up with a major political challenge .
In my view , it is the task of the European Union to employ all instruments , including this one , so as to contribute towards resolving the conflict on the island by political means .
I must take this opportunity to say that it is precisely the amendment submitted by the European Parliament that is so important to me in this respect .
Both the Commission and the Council have been making very optimistic speeches here today as well .
I am delighted that we are all heading in the same direction in this respect .
I believe it would truly be preferable to secure a peaceful resolution to the problems in Cyprus before admitting this country to the European Union .
Regardless of the national origin of each Cypriot , the future of the Cypriot people must involve the unity of that small country .
The key to solving the Cyprus problem is in the hands of the Turkish Government , which supports and encourages the intransigence of the Turkish Cypriot leader Raouf Denkta .
Even in this Chamber , the Council ' s representative referred to the north of Cyprus and not to the occupied territories .
It is not by chance that , immediately after Helsinki , the Turkish Prime Minister , Bulent Ecevit , stated that the Cyprus issue had been resolved in 1974 .
Encouraging Turkish intransigence certainly does not help to bring the two communities closer together in the intimate talks under the aegis of the UN Secretary General .
On their course towards accession , the people of Cyprus have already lost a great deal , but stand to lose even more .
The application of the acquis communautaire has created serious problems for the Cypriot economy , especially in agriculture .
It entails the liquidation of the public sector , and it dislocates and destroys the developed system of social solidarity that exists in Cyprus .
Mr President , I beg your pardon , but the French interpreter made a small error , on the most sensitive word in the debate , during the translation of what Mr Alyssandrakis just said .
I just want to ensure that there is no ambiguity .
Mr Alyssandrakis was translated as saying " the confederate solution would be best " .
Obviously , he said " the federal solution would be best " .
It is a most important point and needs to be clarified , Mr President .
Thank you very much for the clarification Mr Wurtz .
Mr President , Malta and Cyprus are very different from the countries of mainland Europe .
The Maltese in particular have been very good at surviving in hostile geographical and geopolitical environments .
Their success has relied in great part on their enterprise , their dynamism and their flexibility .
Malta has vibrant light and heavy industry , growing financial services , good agriculture , magnificent tourism and an amazing range of employment opportunities , all of this on an island virtually barren of natural resources .
Thus , when I look at this proposed instrument I do not see a measure to bring two peoples into the fold of Mother Europe .
The situation is more akin to a black hole in space , sucking in masses so powerfully that not even light escapes .
The EU should leave Cyprus and Malta alone .
It seems to me that the only people in Malta that want this are the political class , and I shall be keeping my fingers crossed that once again the Maltese people are the winners .
This means that we are all aware of the political dimension of the Cyprus problem .
Helsinki was an historic event , an historic turning-point and an historic new reference point .
Conditions are ripe .
In any event , the outcome is in your hands .
The outcome is in our hands to the extent that we are providing you with decisions , to the extent that we are providing you with options .
They have healthy economies , high-level economic relations , and in the final analysis they constitute a testing ground for the European Union ' s political will .
I hope there has been an interpretation error , and that he will clarify the matter in his follow-up speech .
.
Mr Wurtz , in no way can it be said that the Council is maintaining an ambiguous silence about this issue : the Council assumes total responsibility for its interpretation of the situation in Cyprus .
In fact we need more emotional statements to remind us that all these issues have a human side .
We will not achieve concrete results during this stage of negotiations , which is a delicate and sensitive phase , by exploiting tensions .
No , we should continue to make progress by working discreetly to support the special representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations with his remit .
We are not trying to deceive anyone and we are in no way trying to use practical solutions to create a model implying political recognition .
I believe that , over time , the Council of the European Union has clearly demonstrated that this is not how it sees this issue .
Decisions have been taken by the Council with a great sense of responsibility .
We believe that Helsinki was very clear in this respect .
The authorities of the Republic of Cyprus itself have clearly recognised that our relations with them regarding their accession to the European Union have been positive .
There is no point in second-guessing or trying to second-guess our intentions .
However , I would be more than pleased to elucidate a few points as requested .
I will turn firstly to matters pertaining to headings 4 and 7 .
Malta , Cyprus and Turkey were not provided for at this stage .
Mrs Schroedter described this as a lack of coherence .
She ought perhaps to take some time to ask the erstwhile President-in-Office of the Council , who is not exactly a stranger to you , how this presumed lack of coherence has come about .
I have had a little to do with this too .
Hitherto this has been out of the question of course .
By way of clarification : if we transfer it across from heading 4 to heading 7 then this will have no effect on the overall balance of the budget .
If we do this , then heading 7 would be increased accordingly but heading 4 would be decreased by the same amount .
The idea that heading 7 could be added to in this way and heading 4 left alone , is not workable .
Parliament is no more able than anyone else to spend money that it has not got , at least not until we have a printing machine installed in the basement that we can use to print euro notes !
As for the peace process in Cyprus and how it is linked with the accession negotiations , I would reiterate that there has always been a direct connection between the two .
The Commission and the Council have long endeavoured to encourage the two communities in Cyprus to undertake joint projects .
So far , as you know , this has proved unsuccessful , and I have been asked if there have been any signs to the contrary .
Mrs Rothe , I would put it this way : I am convinced that there has been a distinct improvement in the framework conditions for reaching agreements of this kind .
I do not have confirmation of this at present , and nor do I expect it , since we have not yet held direct talks .
These will take place at a later date .
There would then be no question of Cyprus acceding to the Union .
Therefore , it is my firm belief that , since Helsinki , there has been far greater incentive to link the accession process with the resolution of the conflict .
Indeed that was the idea behind it .
After only a few weeks , Mrs Rothe , it is still too early to deliver a verdict on this , but in any case , I have no grounds for assuming that the new line will fail .
Finally , of course , the Cyprus question has a role in the discussions with Turkey .
I met the Turkish Foreign Minister in Brussels a few weeks ago and naturally I asked if Turkey could take a positive and constructive stance in relation to this issue .
I would just make one point : we cannot be 100 % sure - I am not at any rate - that one only has to press a button in Ankara to set the wheels in motion in Cyprus .
It is very far from being that simple , rather we are going to have to make concentrated efforts , during talks with both communities , to encourage them to reach an understanding .
That is what we intend to do : the necessary measures and programmes are in place .
I must make it clear to you that we need this financial regulation , the one that has yet to be decided on here , before we can even get started .
The financial regulation is the legal framework we need to tackle the priorities established under the terms of the accession partnerships with Malta and Cyprus .
I cannot start anything while there is no regulation in place , because I lack the legal basis for doing so .
If the lamented lack of coherence should happen to have something to do with this point , then I am bound to say that this regulation is a legal framework and nothing more than that .
This legal framework is fleshed out in the priorities set by the accession partnerships that were adopted by the Commission and the Council last year and are now being implemented in the corresponding programmes and project management .
.
.
( PT ) Mr President , I am sure that the issue raised by my friend Elmar Brok will be considered by the Council .
I feel that the criticism made of the previous presidency is not appropriate .
I believe that the work done by the previous presidency in defining the financial outlook was excellent , regardless of who was involved in that work .
In any case , the question that this raises is an important one and the Council will not fail to support the proposals that the Commission has presented in this respect .
Mr President-in-Office of the Council , as I understood it , Mr Brok was actually referring to an earlier presidency still .
Mr President , I asked Commissioner Verheugen a specific question about the financing instrument MEDA but he has not provided an answer .
I would urge him to do so for his answer will determine the way in which we decide to vote on the various proposed amendments we have before us .
Forgive me Mr Poos .
There was a lack of clarity at precisely the point at which you put the question to me .
This is how matters stand with regard to MEDA : Malta and Cyprus can take part in the national programmes , but not in the country-specific ones , because the incomes are too high .
Thank you very much Commissioner Verheugen .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place on Thursday .
Question Time ( Council )
The next item is Question Time ( B5-0009 / 2000 ) .
We will examine questions to the Council .
Question No 1 by ( H-0022 / 00 ) :
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , on 24 January the Council considered the consequences of the accident the previous month involving the oil tanker Erika .
The Council was fully aware of issues of this kind and of the need to take additional measures in this field .
It emphasised the importance of the Council taking new measures within a Community framework and in the context of its own work with international organisations .
There is a directive dating from 1995 on this subject .
There are also plans for a requirement to strengthen the actual structure of oil tankers visiting Community ports .
This House will of course also be invited to give its views on these proposals , given that these are matters subject to the codecision procedure .
I am pleased that the Council is considering this question .
The President of the Council comes from a country , Portugal , which is directly at risk from just this type of situation .
Of course , the story of the Erika seems comical .
A French-owned ship , under a Maltese flag of convenience , an Indian crew , a sea-worthiness certificate issued by Italy , in Sicily , with the last inspection carried out in Bulgaria , I think .
The ship was sinking and the captain realised that it was sinking and that it was not even going to make it to the next port .
This kind of situation should not be allowed .
The damage to your country , Mr President , and to mine , Spain , could be horrendous .
However , we have to work within the existing legislative framework .
That legislative framework is the 1995 directive , which has a set of regulations with a degree of flexibility which should perhaps be implemented more rigorously .
In this area we have to work with the world as it is , and that means reacting in accordance with the facts of the situation .
In view of the seriousness of such situations , we can congratulate ourselves on the fact that the authorities have at least reacted and undertaken to examine the legislative provisions already existing in this field .
The Commission ' s intentions in this area are positive , as it intends to reinforce the application of the 1995 directive .
The Council is minded to give priority to this area , within the Transport Council , and we intend to follow this up as quickly as possible .
We also hope that the European Parliament will be able to examine this issue with equal promptness when it comes before this House under the codecision procedure .
Mr President , in Kotka , in Finland , there is currently a vessel carrying chemicals , which is sailing under a flag of convenience .
- ( PT ) Mrs Korhola , as you will understand , I do not at the moment have the information I need to give you a concrete reply .
The information that I have is to do with the 1995 directive , which does not include any provisions of that kind .
However , the Council will certainly let you have a concrete reply on the options available for acting in the case you have mentioned .
Question No 2 by ( H-0024 / 00 ) :
Mr President , Mrs Karamanou ' s question is an extremely serious one , and I would not wish to conceal that fact .
I think it is well known that the European Union has made a clear contribution to the humanitarian aid effort being made by the international community .
This contribution covers various projects in the fields of health and health systems and of water purification .
Furthermore , as you know , the European Union makes a contribution to the United Nations High Commission for Refugees , which came to EUR 66.3 million in 1999 .
I think that Mrs Karamanou is aware that , because of the need for division of labour between the international donors , the task of restoring health care in Kosovo has been entrusted to the World Health Organisation .
The reports produced by the WHO indicate that it is fully aware of the alarming infant mortality situation , and it has focused its efforts on improving basic conditions in maternity and general hospitals .
Mr President-in-Office of the Council , I thank you for your answer which supplements what Commissioner Patten said yesterday on the subject .
So , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , is it not a moral obligation that we should try to create civilised conditions for the long-suffering inhabitants of Kosovo , and above all , keep our promises to them ?
Mrs Karamanou , I recognise the fact that all the efforts that have been made in Kosovo in this field have not been enough .
I do not think that any of us has the least doubt about that .
Nevertheless , I would like to say that the European Union is aware that the resources it has devoted to Kosovo reflect the financial limitations it has to work within .
We have to remember that we share responsibility in that region with the international community .
This is the basic issue underlying the present situation as a whole .
I would like to widen the debate and include the situation in Mitrovica .
In cooperation with Europe , the international community rebuilt the hospital there too , but it is located in the northern part of the city , thus prohibiting access to Albanian Kosovars .
This means that medical aid is still denied to the Albanian Kosovars .
I understand very well what you are saying and you are right : the European Union should work in a wider context of international cooperation .
But where will you place the emphasis ?
What will you do to ensure that Albanian Kosovars too can be cared for in a hospital , including that in Mitrovica ?
Mr Staes , the situation in Mitrovica is well known .
This is a very special situation with a degree of inter-ethnic tension which fortunately is not matched with such severity in others parts of Kosovo .
I perfectly understand Mr Staes ' s concerns .
I believe that we should not jump to conclusions here about who is responsible , because there are various protagonists involved .
The situation in Mitrovica is appalling , and involves very special tensions , and I believe that the measures taken over the last few hours to create safe conditions in that area are to be welcomed .
Question No 3 by ( H-0027 / 00 ) :
On the basis of this evidence , some of which has already been lodged with the Tribunal , NATO is accused of ' serious violations of international humanitarian law ' and ' wilful murder ' .
Does the Council consider that such accusations should be put before the War Crimes Tribunal for a thorough judicial investigation ?
Is there any procedure for suspending him from office until the judicial investigation into the accusations has been completed ?
Mr President , Mr Alavanos ' question naturally gives us food for thought on a wide range of issues .
I am aware that there may be different views about NATO ' s action and the legitimacy of that action .
Everyone is free to hold such views .
In my own country , the various parliamentary groups had differing views on this matter .
That was how it was .
This objective was fully and formally expressed in the statement adopted by the General Affairs Council in Luxembourg on 8 April .
This compulsory examination was to be carried out in line with accusations submitted .
All information received during the past six months , either from individuals or from groups requesting an investigation of NATO ' s actions during the Kosovo conflict , have been recorded by the Prosecutor .
Any other information will of course be analysed by the Prosecutor , who will in due course decide whether or not there is cause for action .
Until that time Prosecutor Del Ponte has decided not to examine any of the accusations of criminality made against NATO .
If the President-in-Office has noticed , almost half the questions he has had to answer today relate to Kosovo .
Despite this , he too accepted that the inquisition procedure of the War Crimes Tribunal against NATO after applications by Canadian and other pacifist organisations is an open question .
The duties that he exercises today have nothing whatsoever to do with the duties that he exercised during his time as Secretary-General of NATO .
Mr President , I believe Mr Alavanos is getting NATO and Mr Milosevic mixed up .
Mr Milosevic should be appearing before the war crimes tribunal and we should be awarding NATO the Sakharov prize .
But I have a quite different question for the Council .
How do matters stand in Kosovo with regard to the rebuilding of the administration , the judiciary and , most importantly of all , the police force ?
You mentioned before that we are on the brink of catastrophe there and nothing is being done .
Rapid action is called for !
First of all , I would like to say that I agree with the priorities you have identified concerning personal responsibility , Mr Posselt .
With regard to the judicial structure in Kosovo , we have already heard Mr Kouchner , on various occasions , describe the enormous difficulties he is experiencing in setting up administrative machinery and a judicial structure .
As you know , the first steps were taken some months ago .
Statements were made and pressure was brought to bear on the various Member States who have undertaken to make police resources available to honour their commitments .
Some Member States are taking refuge in the fact that they have provided military forces and that they cannot send the police forces , to which they committed themselves , as quickly as they would like .
We are certainly very much aware that this factor is seriously compromising Mr Kouchner ' s work and the normalisation of administrative structures in Kosovo , especially as regards judicial structures and police cover .
I would like to make this clear on behalf of the Council , so that there can be no doubt .
So we do not see eye to eye on how we view certain targets .
This is generally recognised and this happens in all wars , and the Kosovo war was not a clean war , nor a model war , but a war based on the art of the possible .
Question No 4 by ( H-0028 / 00 ) :
Has the time come for the Turkish Government to lift the economic blockade of Armenia ?
Mr President , I would like to thank the Representative of the Council Presidency for his answer .
Nevertheless , I am a little disappointed that this is viewed from a bilateral angle first and foremost when , ultimately , there is in fact a major tripartite relationship .
Our relationship with Armenia , as evinced by the agreement we signed with that country last year , is of course one element in these foreign relations .
We are , moreover , convinced that this issue will be one of the priorities of the bilateral relations between the European Union and Turkey in the near future .
As they deal with the same subject , Questions Nos 5 and 6 will be taken together .
Question No 5 by ( H-0031 / 00 ) :
What steps will the Council take in view of the above in order to ensure compliance with UN decisions and , in particular , resolution 1244 and prevent the secession of the province of Kosovo from Serbia ?
Question No 6 by ( H-0122 / 00 ) :
During the last few days we have seen Serbs murdered by Kosovar Albanian Mafia-type groups , also with impunity .
Mr President , I am sorry , but , listening to the Council ' s representative , one really has to wonder how far hypocrisy , tolerance and complicity can go .
It is a fact that , as they say in my country , in the home of a hanged man one does not mention ropes .
Yugoslavia used to be a peaceful country , a paragon of stability and peace .
It was NATO ' s interventions and initially those of Germany which led to all that has happened .
So it is not the Belgrade Government that is responsible , but NATO itself , the imperialists and their interventions .
What do we have today ?
We have a flagrant violation of Security Council Resolution 1244 and this proves that it was a trap .
We have 350 000 Serbians , Gypsies and other nationalities , besides Albanian Kosovars , who have been expelled .
Nine-hundred were murdered , 800 abducted , and 8 months later we have a continuing and flagrant violation of the Security Council ' s resolution .
In conclusion , since the Minister mentioned Mr Kouchner , I would like to say that , with his 25 decrees , Kouchner is violating both the sovereignty of Yugoslavia and the Security Council ' s resolution .
He has created a separate currency , a judicial body ...
( The President interrupted the speaker )
Let us see things as they are , Mr President !
I thank the Minister for his response , but I would also like to point out that , statistically , there is now more violence in Kosovo than there was before the NATO bombing .
It is worrying that the bombing has aggravated the situation , and we should recognise that it was a mistake on the part of NATO and the European Union to take such action .
We are therefore all to blame .
I would like to ask him a supplementary question in a wider context .
Do you not think that it would be beneficial to lift the embargo on Serbia in order to normalise the area economically and also to benefit Kosovo as a province of Serbia ?
Mr President , I am no friend of Milosevic or his government .
I cannot therefore tell you whether we agreed or not on a specific action carried out by NATO , but it was part of an overall plan with which we do agree .
In any event , I , on behalf of the Council , do not wish to make a value judgement about any specific military action carried out by NATO .
Mr President-in-Office of the Council , since I know the history of the Balkans , I should like to remind you that , for many decades , the peoples of Yugoslavia lived in peace .
Destabilisation began around ten years ago with the break-up of Yugoslavia , in which the European Union played a decisive part .
Yugoslavia ' s crime was that it was the only Balkan country that did not ask to become a member either of NATO or of the European Union .
So whatever remained standing after the air attacks is now being destroyed by the supposedly disarmed KLA , under the very nose of KFOR , whose role as an occupying force is becoming increasingly apparent .
Every day , new crimes come to light against non-Albanian speakers and against the cultural heritage of Kosovo , and there are hundreds of violations of the UN ' s Resolution 1244 .
The division of Yugoslavia is probably a historical fact that we shall have to accept , regardless of the mistakes that may have been made along the way .
We do not feel that withdrawing international forces now would be any kind of solution .
Quite the contrary , it would be a solution leading to calamity .
Mr President , I was a little disappointed with the answer given by the President-in-Office to my colleague .
It is very important , if we stress that Europe is to be a Europe of values , that we do not go down the road of saying that means justify ends .
If civilian targets were targeted and destroyed , killing civilians is illegal by anyone 's standards .
It should not be defended even by those of us who deeply deplore the Milosevic regime .
That , however , is not my question .
My question is about political prisoners held in Serbia now .
There are , I believe , around 5 000 Kosovar political prisoners held in Serbia at the moment .
My question to the President-in-Office is twofold .
Firstly , is the Council fully aware of and concerned about the fate of these prisoners ?
Secondly , what does it propose to do about them ?
Mr MacCormick , first of all , I would like to answer your comments .
I did not defend attacks on civilians .
What is a legitimate target is obviously a grey area .
As I said , we are not making value judgements about specific actions .
We are making an overall value judgement about NATO ' s action , and this overall value judgement is positive . We agree with the general view of NATO ' s action .
In spite of everything , all this represents only one of many kinds of highly pernicious action perpetrated by Mr Milosevic on Yugoslavian society , and the European Union is of course inevitably concerned about this situation .
This is precisely why the European Union is maintaining all its sanctions until Yugoslavia ' s behaviour on the international stage reflects the values that we have to defend .
Question No 7 by ( H-0035 / 00 ) :
Subject : Drafting of the Charter of Fundamental Rights The general public welcomes the fact that a Charter of Fundamental Rights is to be drawn up .
It is also to be hoped that it will meet the challenges of Europe in the 21st century .
What are the Council 's views on the substance of the Charter ? What type of rights will the Charter set out ( economic , social and cultural ) ?
Which citizens will it cover ( those of the European Union or the citizens of all European countries with a view to enlargement ? Will it cover immigrants etc . ? ) ?
Will it set out established social rights in the European Union or will it set a broader agenda ?
What means will the Charter use to ensure that it clearly guarantees equality between the sexes ?
What are the Council 's views on incorporating the Charter into the Treaty on European Union ?
I thank the President-in-Office for the concerns and certainties he has expressed about the progress of the work .
As I said , Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou , we are not in control of the procedure for drawing up the Charter of Fundamental Rights .
This procedure falls within the competence of the members of the group , and the matter will only be submitted to the Council if and when consensus is reached on the terms of this charter .
This matter should form part of the Charter of Fundamental Rights .
This will certainly be the guideline that my government for one will advocate for the Charter of Fundamental Rights .
Furthermore , we will see if we can do this for a range of other proposals that we have on this issue .
I do not know whether these proposals will meet with a favourable reception or not .
I would remind Members that , according to the guidelines for these sittings , questions must be concise and be worded in a way which will allow a brief answer .
You know that there is a Parliamentary delegation chaired by Mr Mndez de Vigo and a Committee on Constitutional Affairs where these issues can be debated at great length .
I therefore ask that both questions and answers be very brief .
Otherwise , we would be in a way undermining the whole process of drawing up the Charter of Fundamental Rights .
I am sure that the President-in-Office of the Council is prepared to answer everything , but I must ensure that this sitting consists of questions and answers .
Mr Rbig has the floor .
Mr President , fourteen Member States have imposed bilateral sanctions on another Member State , because a democratically elected government was formed there .
Both parties were once part of the government .
So far there have been no infringements of the law .
Are preventive sanctions reconcilable with the Charter of Human Rights ?
Would a right of veto on the part of the President-in-Office of the Council , in respect of the formation of national governments , be reconcilable with the Charter of Fundamental Rights ?
Is the call for violent demonstrations reconcilable with the Charter of Fundamental Rights ?
What I would like to know is what will happen to the draft Charter that the Convention draws up ?
Will the Council treat it as a document that it has to accept as it stands , or will the Council feel free to amend that document ?
Will the Council say just simply yes or no to it or will it be in a position to actually then redraft that draft Charter ?
- ( PT ) The answer is neither yes nor no .
I do not know , Mr Martin . It will depend on the decision taken by the Council .
Question No 8 by ( H-0042 / 00 ) :
These can be used to distort competition and support questionable projects .
Will the EU take the lead in advancing this process ?
The need was demonstrated recently by the statement from the British Government that it is ' minded to grant ' an export credit licence to a company involved in the construction of the Ilisu Dam in Turkey .
The World Bank has decided not to fund the project , which will displace 20 000 Kurds , potentially limit the fresh water supply to Syria and Iraq and cause ecological damage .
What is the Council 's view of the involvement of European governments and companies in this project ?
I wonder if you would answer a question concerning investment by EU companies in the EU applicant countries .
I ask this because of the issue of coherence , the subject of this morning ' s discussion .
Can you say whether or not the specific issue of investment in applicant countries has featured in any of the discussions to date to which you have been referring ?
- ( PT ) Mrs Lucas , I was not present at the debate you are referring to .
I would like to say that the Council will only be able to respond to that part of your question in writing , at a later date .
Question No 9 by ( H-0044 / 00 ) :
Many local and European associations have strongly criticised the project .
Similar cases occur in other regions of the Union , where EU development funding conflicts with environmental unsustainability of the beneficiary measures .
Is not the Council of the opinion that the Court of Auditors should be given more resources in order to investigate or review similar development measures where environmental conflicts arise ?
What kind of measures does the Council plan to take in order to strengthen the review and evaluation powers of the European institutions in similar cases ?
This is indeed also stipulated in Article 248 .
The Court of Auditors , therefore , already has all the instruments necessary to carry out its role .
In some cases , it would probably be desirable for their financial resources to be increased , but there are budgetary restraints of which I am sure you are aware .
I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the Budget of the European Union is approved by common agreement between the Council and this Parliament .
The Council therefore , has no means of changing the role conferred on the Court of Auditors by the Treaty .
If extra resources were given to the Court of Auditors it would be money well spent , because it would ensure that EU funding was not going to something that conflicted with environmental concerns .
For years the Council has been blocking the strategic development impact assessment of plans and programmes .
I would ask you , now that you are President of the Council , will you push forward with this extremely important proposal .
Secondly , as there is no mention of Structural Funds in the current draft could you ensure that this would be put back in ?
I would like to know what you could do about this as President-in-Office of the Council at the moment because it is the Council that has been blocking this for a long time .
It is extremely important .
If the Court of Auditors were able to assess regularly the potential conflicts between environmental concerns and structural development , it would be very important because the Court of Auditors could do an extremely good job .
Their reports are extremely detailed and very important .
This is the way to ensure that such conflicts are avoided in the future .
- ( PT ) Mrs McKenna , a large part of the problem you have raised relates to issues which are the responsibility of the Commission .
It is therefore the Commission that must ensure that certain development projects comply with relevant environmental provisions .
The Commission will have to provide specific answers to these questions .
I do not think that I can give a more complete answer on the specific case that you quoted .
Question No 10 by ( H-0053 / 00 ) :
Subject : Statute for Members of the European Parliament The Council and Parliament are going to try to reach agreement on a Statute for the Members of the European Parliament .
One of the matters to be settled is whether Members are to receive equal pay , and where they are to pay tax .
According to media reports the Portuguese Presidency considers that all Members should pay the same tax , to the EU .
This is in conflict with the view taken by some Member States who wish to have the right to tax their Members in their home countries .
Will the Portuguese Presidency clarify its position on this matter ?
The Portuguese Presidency made reaching an agreement on this statute one of its priorities , as furthermore , did the President of the European Parliament , when she stated this at the Helsinki European Council .
We are therefore in perfect and total agreement in our concern to achieve a positive outcome on this matter .
We are therefore taking advantage of this political will in an attempt to define the outlines of a compromise , and we have already begun work on this matter .
The Presidency has engaged in intensive discussions with a range of Members of this Parliament and with the group to which Parliament entrusted the task of negotiating with the Council .
I myself had an opportunity to meet this group , for the first time , in parallel with the January part-session , and I am trying to arrange to do so again soon in order to continue these discussions .
This has , from the outset , been the position of the Portuguese Presidency .
Nevertheless , our role as mediator means that we must take account of all current attitudes in the Council and I am sure you are aware , Mr Sjstedt , that the tax issue poses problems for certain delegations .
As this is the case , whatever solution is found , I think that it will have to respect both democratic law and be acceptable to all Member States , regardless of their national positions on the matter .
Mr President , I would thank the Council of Ministers for its answer .
I want to ask two follow-up questions connected with the taxation of ourselves as parliamentarians .
My basic view is that one ought to pay tax in the country in which one lives , in which one ' s family lives and in which one benefits from public services .
I intended to ask the presidency if there really is an argument for saying that we should not pay tax in our own countries just as other people do .
Is there any argument for our being given a special privilege just because we are parliamentarians ?
That is my first question .
- ( PT ) Without wishing to show any lack of respect towards this House and particularly because of the respect that your questions deserve , I would rather not answer the questions you have raised immediately .
We are in the midst of rather sensitive negotiations . This sensitivity is reflected in the way in which the Presidency of the Council of the European Union expresses itself in a specific context in relation to particular situations .
This has an impact of course , because it is read by other members of the Council .
At this stage in the discussion , please forgive me if I cannot give a direct answer to the specific questions that have been put to me .
I would ask that we be judged on our results , when we endeavour to reach a more concrete solution in the near future .
I am therefore perfectly aware of this problem .
Mr President , I want to thank you for your answer .
I want to ask a follow-up question which bears some resemblance to the one Mr Sjstedt asked .
We both come from Sweden .
In our country , we pay our tax in the form of local taxes because the services concerned are local . We have extensive services , too .
We have problems stemming from the lack of confidence in politicians and , not least , in European politicians here in Parliament .
How do you think a system like that would affect people ' s confidence in ourselves as politicians ?
Mr President-in-Office of the Council , I do not know whether you are obliged to answer this question since it is really a philosophical question .
However , if you wish to enter into the realms of philosophy , go ahead !
. Mr President , I have no desire to enter into the realms of philosophy .
These are fundamental issues which concern the very shape of the Statute for Members and of its role in the context of political society .
I would ask you to allow me to refrain from commenting on this matter .
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Council has elapsed , Questions Nos 11 to 35 will be replied to in writing .
That concludes Questions to the Council .
( The sitting was suspended at 7.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m. )
Address by Mr Vaclav Havel , President of the Czech Republic
Mr President in office , ladies and gentlemen , I have great honour in extending a warm welcome , on behalf of the House , to the President of the Czech Republic , Mr Vaclav Havel .
I should also like to welcome Mrs Havel , who is sitting in the gallery .
You are most welcome .
( Applause )
This is not your first visit to our Parliament , Mr President .
In fact , shortly after the Maastricht Treaty was ratified , you spoke in favour of strengthening European values , creating a European ethical dimension and opening the Union to the countries of central and eastern Europe .
In other words , for many citizens , and not just in your country , you personify the European values to which we constantly voice our attachment .
There have been extremely dynamic developments in relations between the Union and the Czech Republic following two European elections and a major new reform of the European Treaties .
An association agreement has been signed and a joint parliamentary committee has been set up by the European Parliament and the Czech Parliament .
Your country filed an official application to join the Union in 1996 and accession negotiations were finally officially opened in 1998 .
The process of European integration and enlargement has speeded up impressively since the fall of the iron curtain .
The end of this artificial separation of Europe marked the start of a new era .
We now face an historical challenge with multiple prospects for all the citizens of Europe .
Mr President , you are a symbol of these changes .
You founded and signed Charter 77 , the human rights movement which represented and called for fundamental values during a dark period in the history of your people .
A Communist regime sentenced you to five years in prison for defending human freedom and dignity .
But you never lost hope and history proved you right .
Ten years ago , the " velvet revolution " proclaimed Havel na HRAD .
For ten years you represented democratic Czechoslovakia and , later , the Czech Republic , as its president .
Reconciliation with your neighbours was , and still is , a basic objective which you have defended with vigour and perseverance .
You are a first class European .
Today , the Czech Republic is preparing to join our Union .
The European Union , for its part , will need to adapt its institutions and policies in order to prepare for enlargement .
It has already taken a big step forward with Agenda 2000 .
The next step , i.e. institutional reform , will be taken following the inauguration of the new Intergovernmental Conference , in which the European Parliament will be fully involved .
Mr President , it gives me great pleasure to give you the floor .
( Applause )
Mr President , allow me , on behalf of the European Parliament , to extend our warmest thanks for the clear message which you have brought and of which the members have already shown their appreciation .
Thank you . You are right to remind us that a national identity is perfectly compatible with a European identity .
And you have used your personal experience to show us that your European identity was not decreed ; it was a spontaneous and natural move .
I have taken note of your words ; this is something which we all feel very deeply .
We find you faithful to the principles which have always guided you , which have always guided your actions ; your attachment to fundamental values .
We of course look forward most keenly to continuing this task with you .
Thank you , Mr President .
( The formal sitting was closed at 12.40 p.m. )
ACP-EU Joint Assembly
The next item is the annual report ( A5-0032 / 2000 ) by Mr Corrie , on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation , on the results of the activities of the ACS-EU Joint Assembly in 1999 .
, rapporteur.- Mr President , I had hoped to be rising at 9 a.m. , not 9 p.m. , to present this report .
I hope the number of Members in this Chamber is not an indication of the interest in overseas development work .
However , it is normal practice that the report on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly is put before Members of this Parliament and I have the pleasant task of doing that tonight .
Once again , I can report two highly successful Assemblies having taken place , one in Strasbourg and one in Nassau .
In many ways this was the end of an old era and the start of a new one .
The ACP-EU Joint Assembly is a unique organisation in world politics .
Where else do 86 nations come together to discuss matters of mutual concern ?
The Strasbourg Assembly was the last chaired by Lord Plumb .
In honour of the tremendous work he carried out over a difficult period the Joint Bureau in Nassau made him an honorary president , and we wish him well in his retirement .
The two Assemblies have been dominated by the negotiations on renewal of the Lom Convention and I look forward to the signature of a new Convention and its rapid ratification by all the countries concerned .
I remember that at the last mid-term review , when I was rapporteur , the then Commissioner Marin said that review would be the last .
Well , he was wrong , and I pay tribute to Philip Lowe and his team who have worked so successfully behind the scenes to conclude a new Convention in very difficult circumstances .
I was also delighted to hear the report this morning from Commissioner Nielson who has worked untiringly to get the right outcome to the negotiations .
I pay special tribute to him for his success .
I also pay tribute to Mrs Kinnock and her working group for the huge amount of work they put in on the future of Lom .
I am quite sure that Mrs Kinnock ' s report and the one on regional cooperation and integration had a major bearing on the outcome of these negotiations .
I also thank the Working Groups on the small island states and climate change and the Follow-up Group on Fisheries for their excellent reports .
We have had question times to the Council and the Commission and to the ACP Council , and I would like to thank those institutions for their interest in our work .
The main thrust of our work in both Assemblies was poverty eradication .
The resolution passed went so far as to say that poverty amounted to a violation of human rights .
We might then see an end to some of the fraud , corruption and mismanagement that seem endemic in some countries and that have to be stopped .
We had , as usual , many debates on countries where there are war situations .
I visited Ethiopia and Eritrea to gain first-hand knowledge .
The OAU is doing its best to broker a peace deal there .
But Ethiopia is still calling for clarification on certain issues and the humanitarian situation in both countries is serious .
We were delighted to hear in Nassau that a trade agreement was being reached with South Africa after four years of negotiations .
This highlights the problems of coherence between the EU and the developing nations , which came to a head at the WTO talks in Seattle .
Much work has to be done to convince the developing nations of the advantages of globalisation and world free-trade agreements .
In Nassau , we had two interesting debates on East Timor and Cuba .
Cuba has observer status but I understand has now shown a wish to join the ACP .
All nations from within the confines of the ACP territory who can live up to the requirements of democracy , human rights , governance and an independent judiciary are , I am sure , welcome .
I await with interest developments in Cuba .
When Mr Dalmau , the Cuban Junior Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed the Assembly , he did not hesitate to let his feelings be known .
We must give them all our support to reach that goal .
Human rights is such an important issue within the ACP-EU Assembly that Joint Vice-Presidents have been appointed with special responsibilities for monitoring human rights closely and reporting to the Assembly .
A number of cases have been highlighted , including the child soldier issue in Sudan , where many children have been abducted from neighbouring states .
I had the honour of being elected the European Co-President at the beginning of this fifth term and Mr Clair from Mauritius is the new ACP Co-President .
I would like to see a number of changes to our Assembly , particularly after the signing of the new Convention in May .
We must have more equality between our ACP partners and our European members and I want to get rid of the " them and us " syndrome .
Firstly , I would like to see a Joint Parliamentary Assembly of elected members from ACP countries and not ambassadors or government ministers sitting there as delegates .
This I think is the new Convention .
Secondly , the new Convention allows for regional assemblies in the six regions , which would allow us to be much more specific in our work .
These assemblies would report back to the Joint Assembly .
We had a regional debate in Nassau in the Caribbean and this was extremely productive .
We are going to have one in Abuja in West Africa too .
I want the Assembly to stop being just a talk-shop and become a work-shop for the betterment of all the people in developing countries .
I want to see civil society given a louder voice .
But to do that we have to see an end to corruption and we have to face this head-on .
We must reward those nations which are making the effort to live by the rules of good governance .
Equally , we should come down hard on those who are corrupt or whose constitutions do not allow the pluralist governments that we demand .
I am delighted to see the result in Zimbabwe .
European taxpayers will no longer accept their taxes being fraudulently used .
A new wind of change must blow through Africa and new standards must be set and lived up to .
The Joint Assembly should play a leading role in monitoring the enactment of good governance , human rights and democracy in cooperation with the Commission .
I believe that as equal partners the EU- and ACP-elected delegates are up to that task .
I beg to move acceptance of this report .
Mr President , let me begin by congratulating Mr Corrie on his excellent and comprehensive report .
Our approach to development policy must always be based on respect for human rights and the fight against poverty .
But there is a crass contradiction between fighting poverty and the cuts in development aid appropriations in many Member States and in the EU .
An example here could be the field of education , which will deserve and need special support in the ACP states in future .
I see it as a future task of the EU to contribute in this way to the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises in the ACP states , which can promote self-help .
An example here is the problem in Nigeria , which imports industrial finished products from all over the world and then has to spend substantial resources on product maintenance by foreign workers .
One way forward to promote the setting up of SMEs could be to train the Nigerian population adequately .
Thank you , Mr Zimmerling : If I am informed correctly , this is the first time you are addressing this House .
Congratulations on your maiden speech : It went really well .
Mr President , it cannot be repeated often enough : since 1975 , the Lom Convention has constituted an important pillar of European development cooperation and has a pilot role to play in many respects .
Based as it is on the principle of partnership and equality , and on parliamentary control by the Joint Assembly , it is an example to the world .
So I do not want to look back only to the year 1999 . The rapporteur , Mr Corrie , has already done so most expertly .
Much of what concerns us today is the outcome of fundamental processes of transformation in all parts of the world since the late 1980s .
They also had strong repercussions in the developing countries .
The after-shocks can still be felt .
ACP cooperation is a dynamic process .
The content of the agreements has progressed steadily between Lom I and Lom VI .
At the same time the number of partner states has increased considerably , now standing at 71 .
All those involved were particularly moved by the enlargement to Namibia and South Africa .
Cuba has just knocked at the door , and , if Cuba is also accepted into the ACP-EU community , that will be a momentous step and will bring in its wake processes of change in Cuba itself .
So ACP cooperation remains very exciting , and not only because of the new emphases introduced in the new Convention .
Fighting poverty and promoting sustained economic , cultural and social development are important objectives in the endeavour to build up democratic societies , based on respect for human rights , in the ACP states .
That also means strengthening the democratic institutions .
The history of the Joint Assembly provides impressive evidence of a positive trend in that direction .
In the past , the representatives of the ACP countries tended to be government members , government officials or ambassadors ; but today at least three quarters of the ACP delegates are elected members of parliament .
We ought to throw a big party when the figure reaches 100 % in the near future , which is indeed what the new Convention is aiming at .
Unfortunately there is far too little appreciation of the steady advance of processes of democratisation which , unlike the various crises that arise , largely pass unnoticed .
One special aspect of multilateral cooperation with the ACP states is regional cooperation and integration .
There is one wish on the European Parliament ' s long wish list that will be fulfilled : as we have already heard , the Joint Assembly will soon also be able to hold regional assemblies .
Enhanced regional cooperation can help prevent the outbreak of conflicts based on ethnic , economic , social or religious factors , i.e. have a preventive effect .
For the same reason the European Parliament has always called for civil society to be involved in the decision-making processes and in cooperation management , and emphasised the importance of decentralised cooperation .
The enhanced contacts between the Joint Assembly and the social partners provided for in the new Convention are another step in the right direction .
But I am a little sad that the European Development Fund has still not been incorporated in the Community budget .
I hope it does not take another 25 years before we finally achieve that too .
Mr President , I congratulate Mr Corrie on his report .
The Lom Convention has been an expression of a real partnership between the EU and the ACP countries for over 25 years .
That it has continued at all in the face of overwhelming pressure against it from many quarters , including the WTO , is a triumph of sorts .
Measured by this yardstick there are a number of serious shortcomings in the new arrangements .
For example , the agreement is particularly disappointing for those ACP countries suffering from short-term fluctuations in export earnings .
But at the final negotiating session the EU claimed that it had never actually agreed to the inclusion of islands and landlocked states among those which would qualify for the support on the basis of the 2 % threshold .
This change has been devastating for the Windward Islands in particular which may be the only ACP state which will actually lose massively from the new arrangements .
This seems a particularly perverse outcome since the Windward Islands are one of the smallest and most vulnerable of the ACP states and they are now going to have to pay the highest price for this new Lom arrangement .
Non-least-developed countries are likely to face considerable pressure to accept these arrangements .
Yet it is quite clear that even after a transitional period a number of countries will simply be unable to open their markets yet to the chill winds of free trade without wrecking their own domestic economy .
We therefore need to be particularly vigilant to ensure that genuine options are open to those countries which are not yet ready for free-trade arrangements .
We need to ensure that strategies for promoting regional integration within the ACP are pursued in their own right .
Mr President , what I want to do in this debate is condemn the fate reserved for the poor countries of Africa , the Caribbean and the Pacific .
That reflects the growth of inequality between EU and ACP countries .
The Lom Convention essentially benefits a few large industrial or financial conglomerates , which continue to pillage those countries and perpetuate their economic dependence , notably on the former colonial powers .
The aid is primarily a windfall for incumbent regimes , and the poor majority does not benefit at all .
Even if it were properly redirected this aid would not be enough to finance the most basic infrastructure for health care , education or drinking water supply .
For some years now the great powers have been reducing the amount of this already derisory aid , and it is the height of cynicism when this is done on the pretext of human rights violations or corruption .
After all , who protects these deeply corrupt regimes , if not the governments of the rich countries ?
I protest against an ignoble and inhuman organisation which literally condemns hundreds of millions of human beings to a wretched death to enrich a minority .
Mr President , I want to thank the Co-President of the Joint ACP-EU Assembly , Mr Corrie . It was no easy task to draw up a report on a complicated forum like the ACP-EU Assembly .
In this speech , I will confine myself to addressing certain points I consider fundamental .
My next contribution to the debate is to turn my attention to globalisation and the WTO , which is seen by the ACP countries as an enormous danger to their development .
I shall restrict my speech to one particular act which took place a few days ago , partly as a consequence of events alluded to in the report we are debating here .
I refer to Cuba ' s expression of intent , of 2 February , to become a full member of the ACP group of countries .
Following Nassau , a delegation from Parliament led by Mr Corrie and the Chairman of the Committee on Development and Cooperation , Joaqun Miranda , visited Havana and a series of very illuminating exchanges of opinion took place .
That is important , for at least three reasons .
Secondly , we must bear in mind that Cuba ' s application has the support of all the ACP countries .
Nor can we ignore the value of such a decision in demonstrating the consistency and autonomy of the European Union and the fact that it does not bow to pressure from any quarter .
The ACP-EU Joint Assembly meets again in a few weeks time and I am sure this subject will be dealt with there .
Ideally the European Parliament ' s representatives should be able to support Cuba ' s intent at those proceedings , as our parliamentary colleagues from the ACP countries will no doubt be doing .
Of course , Cuba must meet all the standard conditions , just like any other member .
The Cubans know that and I am sure they accept it .
It must also be made clear that Cuba is not going to be asked for more than has been asked of our other partners .
Cuba ' s wish to join is welcome and Cuba will be welcome in our circle .
I do not have very long in which to speak , and I really only want to take up two questions .
The first is about the fight against poverty , which I think is becoming an embarrassment both for the EU and the Member States .
We must put a stop to this trend . We must begin by writing off debts .
We must follow up words with action .
I should like us to take a leading role in this work .
My second question concerns the fact that , in many contexts , we talk about the ACP countries having to learn the principles of democracy .
Paragraphs 2 and 3 of the resolution demand , within the context of the new agreement , that working methods should be developed and optimised .
The ACP countries are to be urged to allow a whole range of political opinions to come up for discussion .
I think that is a very good idea indeed , and I fully subscribe to it .
However , we must also ask ourselves about our own democratic arrangements .
How do these operate within the European Parliament ' s delegation to the ACP-EU ' s Joint Assembly ?
The two large groups share all the reports and consultative documents etc between themselves .
In this context , account ought to be taken of the smaller groups , and consideration given to introducing more representative arrangements .
The challenge was immense .
Globalisation , free trade , and the hegemony of the WTO with its internationalist philosophy , were imperilling the very essence of the North-South dialogue .
However , while I welcome the renewal of the agreements , what I find most interesting is the new wind blowing through our relationships and finding expression in the balanced nature of the negotiations now drawing to a close .
The Union has finally accepted the idea that dialogue cannot be genuine or effective unless it is the expression of a contract which respects the dignity of the partners .
By refusing to allow the idea of good governance to become a tool , in the hands of technocrats , for imposing new sets of conditions , the European Union is demonstrating wisdom and modesty .
We have spent two centuries laying the foundations of a democracy whose fragility is constantly brought home to us by events .
What right have we to try to impose our model on people whose history , values and identity are sometimes so profoundly different from our own ?
In short , this is the only way they can emerge from humiliating and childlike dependence on aid and take responsibility for themselves , the proof of success .
Mr President , Commissioner , firstly , I too would like to congratulate Mr Corrie on the accuracy and rigour of the summary in his report .
The important role of the increasingly parliamentary Joint Assembly in strengthening relations between the European Union and the ACP countries needs to be stressed .
In view of this positive action , there is every advantage to be gained from according the Joint Assembly a budget compatible with improving the quality of its work .
We back the rapporteur ' s proposal to introduce regional parliamentary assemblies , under the aegis of the Joint Assembly , in the six regions of the Convention : the Caribbean , the Pacific and four African regions .
These regional assemblies would monitor action in their respective areas .
Poverty has been the common denominator of all the debates in the Joint Assembly and its eradication is the priority for the European Union ' s development policy .
In line with the resolution at the Nassau meeting , we must concentrate on meeting the poverty reduction targets agreed by the international community .
Consistency and action are needed .
The next Lom Convention must specify the investment in education and stimulate regional cooperation and the participation of local bodies .
The participation of local bodies is absolutely essential .
In a wider context , the priorities , as I see it , are to convert poor countries ' debt into programmes for poverty eradication and sustainable development , as well as control of fraud and corruption .
We need to make progress with concrete and consistent action .
People in the poor countries are beginning to despair .
( DA ) Mr President , I should like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also to thank the Joint Assembly for its work in 1999 .
I am also delighted to be able to confirm that I shall be participating in the Joint Assembly ' s next meeting , which takes place in March in Nigeria .
The Commission is pleased to see the Joint Assembly playing a larger role , especially in connection with promoting a more extensive political dialogue with our partners in development .
The Commission agrees with the rapporteur that combating poverty continues to be the central objective for development policy and will always play a key role .
In order to be able to develop , the countries concerned must , however , become actively involved in the global economic system .
With regard to trade with our partners in development , the Commission is quite prepared to guarantee that any new arrangement will take account of the ACP countries ' special economic and social limitations .
Mrs Lucas mentioned that the Stabex and Sysmin system ought to be continued with .
I do not agree .
That system has proved itself to be inappropriate because it is , in actual fact , of use only to relatively few of the 71 countries concerned .
It operates too slowly , and it therefore stands to reason that the developing countries should have said yes to the new system of the future , because this will operate more flexibly .
It is the applicants themselves who are to decide whether they want to knock on the door .
Once they have done so , we shall adopt a position on the matter .
With regard to Cuba ' s application for accession to the Lom Convention , the Commission notes that , according to their recent declaration , the ACP States support Cuba ' s application .
The EU has always called for a constructive attitude to be adopted towards Cuba , as outlined in the EU ' s common position , but it has to be recognised that the discussions will be complex .
With regard to the Cte d ' Ivoire , I can inform you that the whole of the EUR 28 million has been paid back in accordance with what was agreed following examination of the financial irregularities .
With regard to financing the European Development Fund by an amount in excess of the budget , I can say that this is being considered .
For its part , the Commission supports this , but we cannot at this point produce new reports on the whys and wherefores .
There are no plans to follow the procedure involving concurrent statements in Parliament in connection with such decisions .
This would in fact demand a change to the recently adopted Amsterdam Treaty .
Finally , I would refer to the South Africa agreement , which the rapporteur also touched upon .
So the " Grappa War " is over .
Peace has broken out , and we can now look forward to cooperation with South Africa in accordance with the common dreams and values which ought to have underpinned the whole business from the start .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Stabilisation and association agreement with FYROM
For it is no small thing to have a minority of 33 % or even 35 % in one ' s own country .
That country and its politicians - no doubt with some differences here and there - have always done very good work , and we should recognise that .
The Commission is proposing that we should conclude an agreement jointly with the Council .
Firstly , there is the regional approach .
I believe that if it is understood properly , the regional approach is both important and necessary .
There has to be a willingness to cooperate .
Provided it is not seen as some kind of constraint but as a willingness to cooperate , as an opportunity that each country should grasp , then this is the right approach .
On the other hand , cooperation with Bulgaria , and in particular with Greece , has made good progress and I think we should acknowledge that too .
In my view , this regional approach , provided it is understood correctly , i.e. as a method of contributing to economic recovery in the region itself , is in fact the right one to adopt .
As I said , it must not be perceived as a constraint nor must it be set as a precondition .
Secondly , let me say quite clearly and plainly that we want to open the way to and offer FYROM accession to the European Union .
In our view , it would be an illusion to think there was any point in FYROM applying for accession right now , but it would also be wrong to delay discussing it until some later date .
FYROM wants to be told here and now that , in principle , accession will be possible when the time is right .
This country is afraid it will be in a sense sidelined .
I think Commissioner Patten understands that too .
So I very strongly urge him to make it clear in the appropriate talks .
Thirdly , I believe that , so far at least , FYROM has shown that it is capable of using the various instruments properly .
I hope that the honourable Members will agree to support these proposals as a sign of goodwill towards FYROM .
Mr President , since the start of the Yugoslav wars , the Republic of Macedonia - I prefer to use this abbreviation - has behaved as a constructive peace-keeper .
We would remind you of the proposals made by the governments of Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina at the time , which had non-violent liberalisation and a non-violent separation from the Yugoslav federal structure in view .
Despite the obvious reasons for any internal tension , both population groups have struck a reasonable modus vivendi and the outlook for reaching a sound solution to the remaining problems is good .
It was , in fact , in Macedonia that I heard at the time about the Roma population actually not having too bad a time there .
I was unaccustomed to hearing this type of comment about the Roma in Europe .
With regard to the problems afflicting Macedonia , higher education for the Albanian-speaking citizens deserves our special attention .
Accessible higher education , with which you have a certain affinity , is an important instrument in the emancipation of population groups . I am speaking from personal experience as someone who attended the Protestant university in Amsterdam .
I might never have studied otherwise .
Such an affinity and this type of higher education is also important in the development of the constitutional state and for the aptly termed mainstream society which needs to be strengthened in countries like this .
It would be beneficial if we could reorganise this , especially vis--vis the neighbouring states .
It is only fair that we should regulate aid to Macedonia properly now .
I am more than happy to include Bulgaria and Romania in this , as it seems to me a tactical and psychological error only to talk about the five countries of former Yugoslavia , plus Albania .
It is important to us that the economies in the region can stand on their own two feet again , which can quite easily be done with the aid money .
The agreement with Macedonia should be seen as a door opening to the European Union , allowing this country to join , even though this will not be the case in the foreseeable future .
I would quote the PHARE programme as an example .
Mr President , the name of the republic is still a problem on account of the Greek sensitivities surrounding it .
I assume that the Member States will feel increasingly freer to use the name in their own language which fits the republic .
If certain countries wish to use the words " former Yugoslavia " , then that is their business ; others need not feel obliged to copy them .
It will not do to keep us under constant pressure .
Hence my support for the sound report by Mr Swoboda ; we have come to expect nothing less of him , and hence also my words of appreciation for the respected Republic of Macedonia .
Mr President , let me begin by expressing my personal appreciation of the quality of Mr Swoboda ' s work as rapporteur .
Today we are expressing a positive opinion on the opening of negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Macedonia .
We do so in the awareness that this decision , the very first relating to that area , is actually set in the context of an entirely new phase of our relations with the Balkans .
This new phase , or rather policy , identifies the prospect of integrating the region into Europe as the only option for settling its conflicts peacefully .
This is the dual objective which I believe should be pursued .
And there are several reasons why our opinion can only be positive .
And that means decisively pursuing the kind of parallel enlargement to south-east Europe that the agreements we are discussing represent .
It is in that quasi-provocative spirit that we have presented an amendment suggesting the transfer of responsibility for south-east Europe from Foreign Affairs to Enlargement .
Mr President , Commissioner , the war in Kosovo has knocked everything off balance .
This is certainly true for the relations between the European Union and the western Balkans .
Since then , expectations have been high . This applies to them and us .
This is true on their part because - whether we like it or not - they are asking us for direct aid and they are wondering what Europe wants from them at the end of the day ?
Is there any prospect of membership ?
This is very much on their minds .
But here too , within the European Union , expectations are high .
If we do things properly , this may well be a first taster of a genuine common foreign and security policy .
Will the Union manage to display a united front and develop a common policy , for the first time , concerning such a difficult regulation ?
It also remains to be seen whether the European Union has learnt any lessons from the bad experiences in Bosnia when it comes to providing aid and the slightly better experiences in Kosovo .
Can we , based on the experiences in Macedonia and in four other countries , improve on this ?
Against this background of extremely high expectations , I do not think that I am exaggerating if I say that this first step , namely the stability and association agreement with Macedonia , is vitally important .
This is not the Union ' s only contribution .
The debate on the Stability Pact , the debate on the CARA programme and the financing arrangements in the short term are all pending .
We are now dealing with the stabilisation and association agreements , that is to say a medium-term issue .
This is why I think that this first agreement with Macedonia is so crucial , because it serves as a model .
I am convinced that the four other countries are wondering what is going to happen .
What does the European Union intend to do with Macedonia ?
Will it do the same to us ?
This first step is so important because of this model function .
Macedonia also serves as a model for another reason . The rapporteur has already hinted at this in no uncertain terms , namely , the issue of interethnic relations .
There is no need to paint too much of an idealistic picture .
During the presidential elections , it appeared that things were not running too smoothly , but compared to the rest of the region , Macedonia could serve as a model .
We would gain a great deal if we managed to export this model to the rest of the western Balkans with the help of the Macedonians .
This model function also applies to regional cooperation .
I could not agree more with the rapporteur : a balance must be struck between promoting regional cooperation on the one hand and maintaining the openness towards Bulgaria and Greece , and not cutting them off on the other .
Mr President , Commissioner , if we manage this first step successfully , we will have gained a great deal .
If we mess it up , then we will have lost a great deal more .
Mr President , let me begin by saying that I have no problem with approving this very sound report in principle .
I just want to point to one issue which in my view is not considered in the report and which raises a major problem in relation to Macedonia and the effectiveness of EU financial and other support .
I am referring to the sanctions against Yugoslavia .
Do not misunderstand me : I too believe that we need to take effective action against the Milosevic regime .
But firstly , these sanctions have a far-reaching and adverse impact on many of the neighbouring states too , including Macedonia , which find themselves in an extremely difficult economic situation as it is .
Secondly , the entire population of Yugoslavia is being held accountable for the actions of Milosevic and his circle , which is wrong on humanitarian grounds and politically counterproductive .
So I believe that we should take today ' s debate as an opportunity to call for a rapid end to the policy of sanctions , as stated in Amendment No 10 .
The assumption is that the countries are prepared to accept a certain set of conditions .
The expectation is that we send them a politically relevant signal that it is possible for them to join us one day , maintaining respect for their sovereignty of course .
They have suffered enough , first under the Soviet yoke and then from the high price they paid for being forced to become part of the communist bloc .
The various references made to regional cooperation with the neighbouring countries in fact become politically relevant in this context .
This agreement can and must become an example to the other countries in the region .
That is why it is so important .
The point is that underlying this whole process is an effective political will on the part of the European Union to draw closer to these countries .
Mr President , Commissioner , I am not going to join in the unanimous chorus from my fellow Members .
I think this report is a small masterpiece of hypocrisy .
Paragraph 5 holds up this agreement as an example .
Paragraph 11 indicates that symbolic measures can replace the shared political outlook represented by applicant status .
And I defy you to imagine that there will not be membership applications in due form from Croatia , Macedonia and Bosnia , amongst the Balkan countries , three years hence .
A few days ago Mr Racan announced that Croatia ' s formal membership application would be presented at the end of 2000 .
After nearly 10 years , Greece continues to prevent this country being called by its own name , and I hope the interpreters have not used the term FYROM when I have been saying Macedonia .
It is absolutely absurd . Apart from anything else it is offensive , in my opinion , to the Greek MEPs and the citizens of Greece .
This question needs to be resolved urgently .
Why has the Council not informed us of this ?
Why has the Commission not informed us of this formal request from Macedonia ?
Mr President , Commissioner , the Balkans are not purely a dark cave , politically speaking .
The decidedly positive developments in the Republic of Macedonia over the past critical years speak for themselves .
The gruesome escalation of ethnic violence in neighbouring Kosovo did not reach its territory .
Paradoxically , but truly , the war in Kosovo Polje generated exactly the opposite effect : the perilous gap of confidence between the Macedonian majority and the Albanian minority became decidedly smaller .
From the point of view of the Macedonian majority , the Albanian minority behaved loyally towards the common state during the international explosion of the Kosovo conflict .
In the eyes of the Albanian minority , the Macedonians and the Macedonian state have more than met their neighbourly obligations in respect of Kosovo ' s Albanian majority who were persecuted to the extreme .
This remarkable upshot of the Kosovar war negotiations can therefore justifiably be seen as the internal , political establishment of the Republic of Macedonia the second time round .
Mr Swoboda ' s well-balanced and laudable report fits in with this unexpected and delightful upshot on a very practical level .
Mr President , as one who has been concerned with Macedonia for eight years , I have to contradict Mr Dupuis .
What we are doing here is not hypocritical .
We have reached a propitious moment and I think the Macedonians are glad about it .
Please stop being so unpleasant and pouring cold water on everything .
I think we should take a more positive approach here .
Macedonia did not go through a war .
But it suffered from the war in its vicinity and from the sanctions , as it is still suffering from the sanctions that were rightly imposed on the neighbouring countries .
It suffered enormously from the influx of refugees during the Kosovo war .
So we must admit that developments in Macedonia have followed surprisingly continuous democratic lines .
This is a country that has difficult inter-ethnic problems to deal with at home , and is resolving them with increasing success .
I believe that the opening of these negotiations on the stability and association process is the logical conclusion of a salutary and positive trend in that country .
As a sign of our political commitment , we must finally show Macedonia in practice that we are indeed rewarding its own welcome regional cooperation by genuinely embarking on regional projects .
Let me name just two small ones : the rapid resolution of the problem of the frontier crossing with Kosovo in Blace and the creation of Corridor 8 , from Albania via Macedonia to Bulgaria .
I think Mr Swoboda has drafted an excellent report , and it has my wholehearted support .
Mr President , I too would like to compliment Mr Swoboda on his report .
I think it is a good thing that so many of us are expressing support for the approach he has adopted in it .
The report tackles stability in the region in a structural manner . This is also the purpose of the pending agreement with the Republic of Macedonia which we are debating today .
Although the actual implementation of the Stability Pact has not yet started , the Commission has already developed the new instrument , entitled the Stabilisation and Association Agreement .
This marks the beginning of the treaty-based stabilising process for the countries of the former Yugoslavia .
These countries do not yet qualify for a pre-accession agreement .
The present agreement is a kind of pre-pre-agreement , but with a view to joining in future .
The instrument of joining countries together by means of active treaties is excellent , provided that the agreements stipulated in them are implemented dynamically , so that the required stabilisation can actually be attained .
Macedonia remains a potential minefield and has a history to match .
It does , however , have the ambition to break free from this image .
This requires internal stability .
The new government would like to tackle this matter and the agreement could be an agenda for reforms , including a direct role and equality for the Albanian minority .
More than anything , the country needs peace and quiet now , in order to put its internal house in order and to find the road to greater prosperity .
We , the social democrats , would urge the opposition to back these ideas .
They need to help support the much-praised Macedonian model .
But the country also - and especially - needs external stability .
What is the point of having internal stability if the surrounding environment is unstable ?
This stability is required in the relations with Yugoslavia , Kosovo , Albania and Bulgaria .
The region should recognise that Macedonia exists and that it will continue to exist .
External stability also means open borders and regional cooperation .
Minorities and majorities need to be given room for human and cultural exchange .
Macedonia ' s stability is very much linked with the developments in the neighbouring countries .
The Kosovo problem is well-known and the international community is present there on a massive scale .
It seems that the Albania factor is being underestimated .
The Union considers it untimely to reach a stability and association agreement with this country .
But what then instead ?
It is the very argument to conclude an agreement with Macedonia and not yet with Albania that cause us so much concern , so much so that a passive stance from the Union vis--vis Albania is really not acceptable .
What does the Commission intend to do regarding this issue ?
Yugoslavia is just as much a weak link in the stability process and , as such , a threat to Macedonia ' s stability .
We need to wait and see what happens there .
The mood in Belgrade is becoming less predictable by the day .
We , however , second the Council ' s decision to give the sanctions a different focus .
In this way , at least a serious attempt is being made to give the opposition , which is preparing for a new round of demonstrations , a shot in the arm .
What else will the Union undertake in this respect if the demand from the opposition - bringing forward elections - is met ?
What else can we do to support this opposition ?
When the USA and NATO and , finally , also the EU , reacted , it was already late , in fact very late .
A great deal of suffering could have been avoided if the EU , among others , has acted earlier and more decisively .
We , the European Union , therefore have a special responsibility to help , support and rebuild the Balkans now .
Our absolute objective must be to create the prior conditions for all countries in south-east Europe to be integrated with other countries in the EU - economically , politically and in terms of trade .
Fertile soil for the growth of democracy in this war-ravaged part of Europe is best provided through trade and economic integration .
We Liberals are prepared to go a long way and to do so quickly , just as Paolo Costa reported .
It is therefore with great satisfaction that we welcome the proposal that is now being made for a stabilisation and association agreement with Macedonia , and we thank Mr Swoboda for a very good report .
Macedonia deserves our support , especially in view of the self-sacrificial , disinterested work which the people and leaders of Macedonia undertook during the Kosovo war .
Now that Macedonia is prising itself loose from the crushing embrace of Communism and nationalism , it is our duty to act and provide support in no uncertain terms .
We should do exactly the same for the other countries in the Balkans .
This is an urgent duty for the EU .
The man who is accused of genocide and who ought to be brought before the war crimes tribunal in the Hague still goes free .
I am talking about Milosevic .
As long as Milosevic is still there and Serbia is not pursuing a democratic path , Serbia constitutes a constant threat to peace throughout the Balkans , including in Macedonia .
Mr President , the agreement being promoted will be the first application of the Stability Pact in south-eastern Europe ,
All this , in exchange for the promise of future accession to the European Union .
The report accepts these attitudes along with the more general policy of the European Union on south-eastern Europe .
On the contrary , I think that this demand can only be considered satisfied by a de jure full normalisation of FYROM ' s relations with all its neighbours .
Mr President , the agreement we are debating today , as analysed by Mr Swoboda , which I hope we will adopt tomorrow , constitutes the second politically positive step , after the stability pact for the area .
There is another small step , which is related to the recent partial lifting of the embargo decided by our 15 governments for Yugoslavia .
For about 10 years , the situation in the area has been fluid .
Both as an historical period and , in particular , as a political period , 10 years is a very long time .
Under those conditions , then , there has been a real failure .
In that sense , the agreement we will be voting on tomorrow , which contributes towards stability in the area , is de facto a move in the right direction .
In essence , FYROM is a miniature version of the former Yugoslavia , regardless of where one or another minority holds supremacy .
We must be sure that , in seeking allies in the area , we must not always choose anyone who offers .
We must choose those which are moderate , which have breadth of vision and which have a perception of peace and stability in the area .
In any event , speaking now as a Greek , I want to tell some of the speakers I listened to earlier that much of what was said is fixated on other times and places .
They have quite failed to grasp the new conditions created in the area ; the new and positive conditions which have been created , in very many cases on Greece ' s initiative .
You should know that the country which cooperates most with FYROM and has the best relations with it , in the entire area , is Greece , and this has contributed greatly to the stability of the area .
I say this just so that we know where we stand .
Mr President , I found what Mr Souladakis said much more sensible than the statements by other colleagues from his Member State .
Let me also say quite openly that he is thereby doing huge damage to his own country ' s interests .
It is in our interest to see stability and peace in the Balkans , and there is a chance of that , although the Stability Pact is in danger of becoming a stillborn entity .
I hope that is not the case , but the risk is there .
That is precisely why it is so urgent for the EU to take a bilateral approach to the individual states and for us to open up definite prospects of EU membership for Macedonia .
So I welcome Mr Swoboda ' s excellent report , especially paragraph 12 , which quite clearly maps out a European , an EU , prospect for Macedonia .
Without indulging in any illusions , I believe that is important , it has to happen .
A few years ago , I had the privilege of inviting the current President and Prime Minister here as private individuals .
At the time they were still finding it very difficult to build on their various contacts here .
I am very happy to see they have kept the promise they made at the time : to build up a profoundly European democracy .
We must thank them for playing this important role in moving towards peace , stability and democracy , at a very critical time last year , as I said , and at a strategically crucial point .
So we are not just the donors here , we were also the recipients , and we owe it to the Macedonians to thank them for fulfilling a crucial European mission at that time .
. This has been a very interesting general debate about the Balkans as a whole .
I am delighted to be able to be able to set out the Commission 's position on the report .
It is very helpful .
It is an excellent contribution by Mr Swoboda and his colleagues .
We are very grateful for his leadership on this issue and for that of some of his colleagues , a number of whom are in the House this evening - Mrs Pack , Mr Lagendijk and others .
I am very pleased that at our overall relations with FYROM are in such a good state .
Perhaps Mr Dupuis will forgive me for using that expression - both he and his interpreter - in the spirit of entente cordiale .
That has been helped by our excellent European Union representative in the country .
He has been a great friend to Parliament and a great servant of the Commission .
The imminent commencement of negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement is the most powerful example of our good relations .
So to is the cooperation of FYROM in the rebuilding of Kosovo .
I am grateful to the authorities in Macedonia for their assistance in recent weeks in helping to cope with the considerable difficulties with the power supply in Kosovo .
I saw the newly-elected President Georgievski a few weeks ago and I was extremely impressed , as others have been , by his commitment to multi-ethnicity and pluralism .
Let me set out where matters now stand on these negotiations to which - as Mr Lagendijk said - other countries in the region are looking with very considerable interest .
The Council adopted on 24 January this year its negotiating directives for a stabilisation and association agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia .
This represents the most important step forward in the stabilisation and association process of the western Balkans region initiated by the Commission in May 1999 .
Let me make clear the main elements of those draft directives .
They cover the inclusion in the agreement of arrangements establishing a political dialogue with FYROM .
They cover the prospect of the establishment of a free trade area between the European Union and them within ten years of the entry into force of the agreement .
They cover provisions on the movement of workers , freedom of establishment , supply of services , current payments and movement of capital .
We are now making in the Commission the necessary preparations so that negotiations can start in March .
I am due to visit FYROM in the second week in March .
I hope to be able to set the process in motion then , although the formal negotiations will start very shortly thereafter .
At the time of that visit I will also , as recommended by honourable Members and others , be upgrading our representation in FYROM .
The target date for concluding the negotiations is December this year but this will depend to a very large extent on the goodwill and determination of the negotiators .
The agreement could enter into force in three to four years from now , given the time needed for ratification in Member States ' parliaments .
I should like to comment very briefly on a number of other points in the draft resolution .
I share the wide-spread concern that we should treat each country on its merits and not shackle everyone to the pace of the slowest in the development of relations with the Union .
That has never been the intention .
The very fact that negotiations are beginning first with FYROM , before all the others , is evidence that we can and do differentiate .
On the provision of regional aid referred to in the report we agree that our technical and financial assistance should go in part to projects having a cross-border or regional dimension .
We agree that there should be an evolutionary clause on the prospect of EU membership contained in the stabilisation and association agreement .
It will reflect the European Union 's position on its relations with the countries of the western Balkans as set out in the Cologne European Council conclusions .
We strongly agree on the need to decentralise our assistance programmes to the maximum possible extent .
I am aware that there is concern in FYROM and elsewhere at the end of the PHARE programme in these countries and , especially , at the loss of association with the PHARE name .
I note with considerable concern what Members say on this score .
I will take another look at the issue , although I should point out that having two PHARE programmes up and running risks real confusion .
I want to stress , however , that whatever the programme is called , our commitment to the integration of FYROM and its neighbours into the European family is stronger than ever .
In general I trust that Members of this House will share my pleasure that Macedonia has reached this stage relatively rapidly .
I hope that the other countries of the region will redouble their efforts to make similar progress .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Patten .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
Agreement on comitology
During the trialogue held on 6 October 1999 in Strasbourg , the Presidents of the European Parliament and the Commission approved the idea of concluding this agreement soon .
We believe we have respected that commitment , and indeed this was made relatively easy by the climate of trust and mutual respect evident throughout the negotiations with the Commission .
Hitherto , such information had been supplied on paper and unsystematically , and was of no use to our services ; and indeed this was often the fault of Parliament itself .
But we all realise that it is not always possible to wait a month before implementing a measure .
Therefore , the agreement contains explicit provisions on urgent procedure , including possible action by the committee responsible .
I want to end by stressing that we cannot assess whether this is a good agreement or not , we must wait and see how it works in practice .
Mr President , comitology is a concept most people do not know how to handle and hardly anyone knows what it means .
It makes them think of secret societies and conspiracies , which is the way things used to be .
In fact , it implies nothing other than fixing the procedures for the exercise of the implementing powers conferred on the Commission .
The procedures for exercising these implementing powers take the form of a limited number of committee procedures .
Up until the Amsterdam Treaty , there were about 20 variations of these committee procedures , which created neither clarity in the implementation of legislation nor transparency for the citizens .
On the contrary , for a long time even the European Parliament was not informed .
Agreement was reached in 1988 in the form of an exchange of letters between Lord Plumb and Mr Delors .
It also gave it the possibility of scrutiny .
Now , following the Amsterdam Treaty , the rights of information and control granted to the European Parliament in the past need to be enshrined anew in an interinstitutional agreement .
Mrs Frassoni , our rapporteur , has done very careful work and identified the questions that have to be clarified in the context of that interinstitutional agreement and the administrative procedures that may have to be changed within Parliament .
A key problem is the time factor .
When the European Parliament is informed , it generally has to adopt a position within the very short timeframe of four weeks , should it so wish .
Nevertheless , the European Parliament must retain the right to be informed and where appropriate also to react .
Our rapporteur identifies very useful solutions to these difficulties , which I and my group can only support in full .
I just have one more request .
In the German version , paragraph 2 of the resolution has been translated rather misleadingly and I urgently ask for clarification , which I would also like to see in the printed version later .
In my view , instead of " weitergefhrt werden mssen " the wording should be " erhalten bleiben mssen " .
The German version is not very clear here .
I would ask for that to be checked again .
For the rest , I warmly thank our rapporteur .
It is a difficult subject and I hope we have managed to make it somewhat easier to deal with now .
Mr President , I congratulate the rapporteur on her report .
I must add that it is a welcome change to see Mrs Frassoni in such a conciliatory mood and willing to reach compromises with the other institutions .
Yet here she is willing to accept the steps forward that have been achieved , which are far from matching Parliament ' s original position on the issue of comitology .
Let us remember what is at stake here .
Parliament had four main criticisms of the comitology system as it existed prior to the new Council decision supplemented by this interinstitutional agreement .
Firstly , the whole system is obscure .
It is not transparent with hundreds of committees meeting with secret agendas and nobody knowing who is on the committees .
Here is a real step forward , in the new system that has been agreed .
We are to know who is on each committee .
We are to know when they meet .
We are to get the agendas .
We are to get the documents that are sent to them .
The whole system will be more open and transparent - if still rather complex .
So that is at least a step forward .
Our second criticism is that the system was very restrictive of the Commission . We adopt legislation in the European Union .
Here too there is at least some progress .
That is a more reasonable system .
That , too , is a step forward .
But on our other two criticisms , we are less satisfied .
The legislative authority , Council and Parliament , should be equal .
We confer implementing powers on the Commission , but then it is only a Council or Member State appointed body that can blow the whistle and say no to the Commission and stop the implementing measure .
Parliament has no equivalent power .
True , we are now given the beginning of such a power in this new system .
We are to receive all the draft implementing measures forwarded to a committee at the same time as it is sent to the committee .
We will have the chance to scrutinise , to debate , to question .
But we will only have the right to formally challenge the Commission if we think it has gone beyond the delegation that we have given to the Commission in the legislation .
In other words , we can challenge the measure for being ultra-vires but not on its content .
And in a democracy , Parliament should be able to challenge the content .
Not that we do so every week .
We are not seeking to immerse ourselves in implementing decisions , but it is a democratic safeguard that we should be able to do so on those few occasions when it really would be necessary .
That is lacking in this new system , or at least is only there in embryonic form .
That is not correct .
Both branches adopt the legislation - Council and Parliament - that confers implementing powers on the Commission .
If such implementing measures are referred back , it should be to both branches , not to one branch alone .
Overall we have a system which has made some progress .
The supplementary aspects that arise from the interinstitutional agreement with the Commission are welcome , but that could not change the basic decision of the Council .
Even here , we have renounced voluntarily - because this did not happen automatically - the Plumb-Delors agreement as part of the overall compromise .
We have been willing to relinquish the provisions in that .
We shall have to be very vigilant on what used to be covered by that agreement and is not fully covered by the new decision .
We must be very vigilant .
So it is a step forward .
My group reluctantly accepts it as a step forward .
We are not as enthusiastic about compromising as Mrs Frassoni .
We recognise that there are limitations and the issue will no doubt come back in a few years ' time .
If we want a Union that is democratic and transparent to the fullest degree we will have to revisit this subject .
Mr President , first I want to thank the rapporteur , Mrs Frassoni , for her work .
It is never easy working on comitology .
Mrs Schleicher referred to a kind of committee magic , something we have long talked about .
Certainly the process has always been very complex , as a result of historical decisions , and these must eventually be rationalised .
In my opinion , the agreement reached between Commission and Parliament is a clear rationalisation of the process .
From our point of view , it satisfies the fundamental interests of Parliament .
Mr Corbett set out Parliament ' s concerns .
He says some of them have been satisfied and others have not .
I would say the ones the Commission was able to satisfy have been satisfied .
Mr Corbett is raising issues the Council decision does not cover , and unfortunately we can go no further on those .
So how far have we come ?
There is no doubt that we have reached a fundamental point , highlighted by Mrs Frassoni , given that we now have an automatic information system .
I think this is a good agreement .
It is a good agreement which undoubtedly improves the transparency of the process .
From here on things are going to be easier .
But the agreement we are reaching today should not be regarded as a backward step compared with the Plumb / Delors Agreement .
Mr Corbett referred to that , but the new model is certainly much more complex , different because the situation is now different , and , in our opinion , much more coherent .
We have made a start , and we hope the work will produce some excellent results .
We think there are other positive advances too .
From the Commission ' s point of view , our conclusion is that this is a good agreement , and we want to thank the Members of Parliament who worked on it - especially Mrs Frassoni .
We hope that this new climate means we have achieved the result we were seeking , which is greater transparency and better information about the decisions of the Commission as an executive .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Solbes Mira .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
Protocol on the excessive deficit procedure
Therefore , if the regulation is adopted , the estimate which is due to appear in March 2000 , the first estimate of the deficit for the 1999 accounting year , will be made using the new system .
We know the Member States have done their duty - if I can use that expression - doing their calculations and preparing their national accounts in line with ESA 95 , and they have already published their corresponding estimates .
In addition to incorporating a new methodology , this has meant making slight changes to most accounting aggregates and operations , on account of the aforesaid methodological changes , and also the improved statistical information included in the estimates .
These changes may of course alter the government deficits in terms of the Member States ' national accounting .
I will now describe , very briefly , the five areas where the most important changes may occur .
First , the adjustments to the scope of what is meant by ' government institutional sector ' under ESA 95 .
This is important , since government deficit means the deficit accumulated by all forms of government .
The non-availability of precise criteria for the definition of government deficit would produce distortions in the estimates of the Member States ' government deficits .
Secondly , the deficit - or , if applicable , the surplus - means the ESA 95 government sector ' s net borrowing requirement or lending ability respectively
Thirdly , government investment means the gross fixed capital formation of the general government sector , as defined in ESA 95 .
Fourthly , government debt is defined in accordance with ESA 95 , as are the flows or interest stemming from assets / liabilities .
Fifthly and finally , the aggregate to which government debt will relate will be gross domestic product at current market prices , estimated in accordance with the 1995 European System of Accounts ' definitions .
We have already heard about the various aspects involved .
What I think is crucial is that henceforth the statistical data will be more reliable and comparable .
We need that because the various European Union bodies and all the Member States within monetary union have to be able to depend on one another .
It is important to adjust the procedure for two reasons .
Firstly , for the single market .
It is most important quite generally in a single market to have reliable and directly comparable data and statistics so as to give an accurate picture of the situation and development trends .
Secondly , for economic and monetary union .
The regulation dating from 1993 on the application of the Protocol must be brought into harmony with the methodology of the European system of accounts at national and regional level .
That is vitally important to the accurate and reliable calculation of deficits .
This adjustment will make it possible to estimate the deficits and debts in the Member States more precisely .
These technical changes will have a very real impact on the actual position of the countries , since the data will automatically be amended in line with the public deficit .
Let me also briefly use this debate as an opportunity to urge all the governments and political parties to do their utmost to ensure that this procedure never has to be initiated for an excessive deficit .
It is good that the procedure exists .
We need it because it lends our criteria the necessary seriousness and credibility .
The citizens ask what happens if the criteria are not met .
Thanks to these procedures and other measures we can prove that we are taking the criteria and ourselves seriously .
Another important point is that we must do all we can , not just to prevent excessive deficits , but also to further reduce public deficits .
I know what I am talking about and I will conclude by telling you why I am so glad we are holding this debate !
We are currently holding a debate in my own country on whether the former minister for finance actually gave us accurate information on the deficit .
In my country , Austria , new elections had to be held in 1995 in order to meet the Maastricht criteria and persuade our political partner to rethink his approach .
Mr President , the beauty of statistical data is that it is not only reliable but also comparable .
This is of great importance , especially in the light of European unification and the completion of the internal market .
This is why this report is also so politically charged : a report , by the way , on which we would like to congratulate the rapporteur warmly .
It also inspires a few political comments .
The Stability Pact is a given in Europe .
All countries participating in the euro have committed themselves , in the medium term , to striving towards a budget which is either balanced or shows up a slight surplus .
The stronger the position of the participating countries , the stronger the euro will be .
As a result , the three percent standard will rarely be exceeded , not even in a bad economic climate . This is the theory behind it , anyway .
We have always been of the opinion that these criteria should be stringently met .
That is of great importance in order to turn the EMU into a success , now and in the future .
Strict compliance with the Stability Pact can thus contribute to a culture of stability within all EMU Member States .
Various Member States have taken one-off measures to be able to meet the criteria .
We are of the opinion that the Member States ' budget policy should be strictly supervised , to ensure that the measures continue to be taken in the spirit of the prescribed criteria at all times .
A drop in standards should not be allowed .
We are also of the opinion that a further reduction in the burden and reducing the national debt should be prioritised .
Indeed , we still have not managed to stop passing on the burden to future generations .
.
( ES ) Mr President , many thanks , first of all , to the rapporteur for his splendid work .
It was a subject which called for a large dose of technical skill and I think Mr Knrr has handled it with great precision and professionalism .
I just mention that to complete the view of the process .
Secondly , I would like to thank Mr Knrr for his speediness .
He has done really good work in a very short time .
This is an important subject for certain references which we have heard subsequently .
What we are seeking with this legislation is not to make the statistics reliable and comparable - they already are - but to make them more reliable and more comparable .
Obviously , the fact that Parliament has taken its decision so quickly will mean that the March figures can already be calculated on the basis of these new criteria .
That being so , I believe the final result will be better .
The figures will be more reliable and more comparable and I think the concerns some Members have raised about compliance with the stability pact can be better addressed .
This regulation is purely instrumental .
It does deal with the substance of the problem some of you have raised .
But we do need to think about how we deal with the substance of the problem .
But we see no reason to lower our guard .
We must press on in that direction because we know it is vital .
So , once again - and finally - I want to thank you for your help in allowing us to measure stability with greater technical certainty and better comparability .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Solbes Mira .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
Increasing penal sanctions against counterfeiting of the euro
It is a definite and concrete issue . It is about our common currency .
How many people here know that this currency is being counterfeited and that we have a quite unacceptable state of affairs ?
We cannot permit our common currency to become weaker through its being counterfeited .
The ECB , ECOFIN , Europol , OLAF and the Commissioner responsible for legal questions have therefore realised that common countermeasures must be taken quickly in order to close the loopholes left by the legislation .
It is easy to forget that it will be possible to exchange the old currencies for twenty years after the new currency has been introduced .
It is therefore important to include these currencies too in the section of the present programme of measures which deals with penal sanctions .
This is something which Parliament has said it wants to see added .
Any country which began to make difficulties would incur a responsibility for the currency , and that country would be accountable , both morally and economically , if its actions were to contribute to a delay .
A country which acted in that way would bring a lot of ill will upon itself .
On 1 January 2002 the euro will be in circulation .
The whole of the Union must have the same protection , a type of protection which prohibits counterfeiting , not only of currencies in circulation but also of currencies which will be in circulation .
It is important that , in time , there should be a more or less similar-looking form of protection under criminal law in all countries .
Trading with counterfeit currencies and the possession of counterfeiting equipment will also become criminal offences .
Quite simply , we are to have a minimum level for the maximum penalty .
The denominations of the euro are well known .
Modern computer equipment can be used to cause a very great deal of damage if we do not protect ourselves .
Parliament has tabled a number of amendments to the present proposal , for example in regard to jurisdiction , the idea being that a person may only be prosecuted and sentenced in the one country for the same crime .
There are also proposed sanctions against companies which are involved in counterfeiting , this being a measure which we would encourage .
The new applicant States are also encouraged to adapt to these regulations .
It has taken two years for the Council and the Commission to produce this proposal .
It is essential that the decision should now be taken in March .
To delay , or perhaps even risk damage to the euro , would be indefensible . It would also be a betrayal of the people who will be handling the new , unfamiliar notes .
In particular , it is believed that counterfeiters will turn their attention to countries outside the euro zone , where people are less familiar with the new currency .
The protective measures cover these countries too , and the views expressed by these countries have carried a lot of weight .
The present proposal is therefore staunchly inclusive and reciprocal in character , accepting responsibility for a variety of interests in a way which imposes obligations upon others .
The Council must now convene in March and make the relevant decision .
Thank you for listening .
Thank you , too , those who contributed to this matter ' s being dealt with swiftly .
I am thinking in particular of the Group of the Party of European Socialists .
The euro will enter into circulation on 1 January 2002 and will become one of the world ' s most important reserve currencies .
Due to its importance on a world scale , the euro will be particularly exposed to the risk of counterfeiting and forgery .
This draft decision therefore lays down a set of minimum standards intended to harmonise criminal law in this field and make its application by each Member State simpler and more effective .
It also provides for the euro to be protected even prior to its circulation , which will fill a gap in legislation in some Member States .
I expressly support the rapporteur as regards the need to extend this protection to national currencies which can continue to be exchanged after they have been withdrawn from circulation .
This means that every Member State must guarantee the establishment of effective , adequate penal sanctions , which act as a deterrent against the offences covered by the draft framework decision .
Mr President , this draft framework decision represents the first time a common proposal on crime has been put forward , with legislation to be applied by all fifteen Member States at the same time .
We are therefore making progress towards the aim of developing and confirming the status of the European Union as an area of freedom , security and justice , as expressed at Tampere .
Mr President , I need not repeat what the rapporteur said or the points Mr Coelho made .
All that is indeed very true and correct . It is easy to counterfeit the euro .
We are going through a dangerous transitional phase in which a phenomenon has appeared in criminal law that is perhaps unique in monetary history .
It is a highly complex problem .
If we do not act promptly - as Mrs Cederschild rightly said - anyone can produce a few counterfeit euros now and possibly not be prosecuted for subsequently putting them into circulation .
Let me say in passing that this may seem an attractive prospect for a number of people .
So what is the European Union doing about it ?
The manner in which the Council , which is by far the most undemocratic institution in Europe , consulted the European Parliament makes a mockery of the concept of democracy .
We received a text for consultation which the Council had been working on for a very long time , incidentally with only partial success - I will come to that in a moment .
Now the European Parliament is supposed to state its position on this complex , difficult and , at times , contradictory Council document in the space of three months .
So let me state quite clearly here , on behalf of my group , that we discussed at length with Mrs Cederschild whether it is reasonable to work like this .
We concluded that it is not , but given the importance of the issue we nonetheless agreed to accept this procedure .
This framework decision does without any doubt represent some progress .
I leave it to the assembled company in this Chamber to decide whether that can be the future of a European Union based on judicial cooperation .
Thank you for your attention during our night sitting together .
Mr President , the launch of the euro could well be a heaven-sent opportunity for counterfeiters .
The fact is people are suddenly going to lose all their currency references , and that means they will be at serious risk of easily accepting forged euros because they are not very familiar with the genuine article .
So the Council is naturally worried and is seeking to establish sanctions , primarily criminal , applicable in all the countries of Europe , against offences of this kind .
No doubt the Council could have been satisfied with a simple resolution recommending that Member States adopt national legislation to that effect .
That is what I would have preferred , personally .
But , probably through lack of confidence in the zeal of certain members , the Council has preferred to implement a legal instrument which is more binding at European level : a framework decision .
The draft framework decision before us today tries to cover up this lacuna by referring to Articles 31 and 34 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Treaty .
However , I find these passports inadequate .
Article 31 only envisages minimum common rules for criminal acts in certain cases , specifically restricted to organised crime , terrorism and drug trafficking .
Counterfeiting is not on the list .
Article 34 , a product of the Treaty of Amsterdam , only lays down the new form of a framework decision , and clearly this only applies to the existing powers of the European Union .
So we come back to the previous problem .
In other words , the Council has not succeeded in giving this text a credible legal basis .
In a way , this is deferred punishment for its lack of honesty , at the time , in presenting the Maastricht Treaty to the voters .
I would also like to make a more general point .
Not so long ago we were dealing with one or more reports on questions of principle relating to the euro in virtually every part-session .
But there has been nothing for a year .
Just a few little technical reports like this one on counterfeiting .
However , there are many underlying problems yet to be resolved .
Mr President , for those unfortunate investors even real euros are false money .
These are gigantic problems but they seem to be taboo here .
I should like to take over the baton from the previous speaker .
There are a number of questions of principle which are demanding solutions , because the point of departure is , of course , that the regulation of criminal law is a national concern .
Criminal law is part of each individual nation ' s own cultural tradition , and it is very difficult to arrive at common definitions of what is to be understood by these basic legal concepts .
She would like to devise these sanctions jointly so as to arrive at a coherent criminal justice system for offences which have particular relevance for the EU .
But the problem is that there is no legal basis for this , and with good reason , because the regulation of criminal law belongs to the sphere of national jurisdiction .
In that context , I want to ask the following question of the Commission ' s and the Council ' s representatives : is the legal basis which has been invoked adequate ?
What of course characterises the present draft framework decision is the fact that the Member States ' obligations are laid down in detail . There is no freedom of choice regarding methods and implementation .
In my view , this exceeds the parameters of the legal basis .
I should like an answer from the Commission and the Council , for I consider it obvious that Article 31 does not supply the relevant legal basis .
We have all noted that the conversion phase will bring uncertainty and risks with it .
We are also concerned with the question of cooperation .
We need to define the precise responsibilities of the ECB , the national central banks , the Commission and Europol pertaining to all matters relating to counterfeiting of the euro .
I also think we should perhaps consider setting up an interinstitutional or EU body in charge of coordinating the cooperation work .
In the same context , we could establish an early warning system functioning round the clock , together with a common information system for the rapid exchange of data between the responsible authorities .
Aside from the report , which we welcome , many questions have arisen that still need to be resolved .
I hope the debate we are holding here will bring some clarification .
Mr President , Mrs Cederschild , ladies and gentlemen , how safe is the euro ?
That is , after all , a question the people often ask .
And that question will of course become increasingly pressing with the approach of 1 January 2002 , the date when they will have euros in their pockets .
For the safety of the euro is not just a matter of the stability and external value of the currency but , in fact , also of protecting the euro against counterfeiting .
That too is a concern of the people , for , as has rightly been said , this will be a new currency for them , new in terms of how it looks and also how it is used .
Of course all the citizens of the EU Member States will also be faced with the novelty of a currency that is valid over such a wider area , and even beyond Europe , as a reserve currency .
They will need time to get used to that too .
So it is clearly necessary to ask what the EU is doing to protect the euro against counterfeiting .
And that is what we are discussing at this late hour .
This really is a subject that is close to the citizen , so it is a pity it is being debated at such a late hour .
But that cannot be helped .
Of course , the European Central Bank has been looking into the matter for a very long time .
After all , it is responsible for technical measures to protect against counterfeiting .
That is what this framework decision is about .
I certainly appreciate that .
The framework decision aims to ensure that the Member States apply the same definition of counterfeiting offences .
It has been pointed out that this framework decision is in fact a decision in the area of criminal law .
In that respect we must recognise this innovation , this step , even if , as Mr Schulz just pointed out , simply supplementing a rather old convention is not really a particularly bold step .
In reply to the question whether the Commission considers that the framework decision has an adequate legal basis under the Treaty , the Commission believes that the right basis is being applied here .
The framework decision will , however , have to be supplemented by other legal acts in future .
The Commission will submit a proposal for a regulation on cooperation between all the responsible authorities and on cooperation with Europol .
As Mr Karas just pointed out , a few weeks ago the Commission submitted a proposal for an information campaign on the euro , to which it proposed allocating as much as EUR 32 million .
That is a volume of funding that can be put to very effective use , a large amount ; and of course the information campaign will also focus very strongly on protecting the euro against counterfeiting .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Schreyer .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
( The sitting was closed at 11.50 p.m. )
Resumption of the sitting
The Minutes of yesterday ' s sitting have been distributed .
Are there any comments ?
( The Minutes were approved )
We discovered during the meeting that the lovely white curtain behind you , Mr President , in fact conceals a huge window which , if the curtain were drawn back , would afford a wonderful view over the river .
But what is to prevent us , before the sitting is opened or when you close the sitting , opening the curtains and enjoying the apparently magnificent view behind you ?
I think it would be a nice idea if you could discuss opening this curtain from time to time with the ushers .
Thank you very much Mr Onesta , I am grateful for any suggestions that will make our Chamber more conducive to human comfort .
I would propose that we carry on in the normal way for the time being .
In the meantime , I will have someone check as to whether it would be a simple matter , technically speaking .
If so , then we will have a trial run for half an hour and see how it looks when the President sits with his back to the light !
UCITS
( SV ) Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , it is my hope that Parliament is prepared now to make a decision to extend and strengthen the financial market in Europe .
As a new Member of the European Parliament , it has been very interesting and instructive for me to be given responsibility for this important matter .
There was a good deal of agreement within the committee , apart from on a matter which , too , I hope it will be possible to solve .
The issue of UCITS may appear difficult , technical and a political minefield .
I believe that some people do not even know what UCITS stands for .
It is a question of weighing demands for liberalisation in the interests of a better market and higher yield against investors ' need for protection and security .
In the course of the 1980s , most markets in Europe underwent drastic deregulation .
As a result , the national money and bond markets in particular developed very quickly over a period of a few years .
Collective investment undertakings became an alternative to saving with a bank .
In my own country , more than 60 per cent of Swedes save with a variety of funds .
The security afforded by this type of saving is attributable to the broad range of investment vehicles in which the funds are placed .
The capital and securities market has continued to be developed .
The current Directive on UCITS has become antiquated and outdated .
New types of funds have been introduced in the various Member States which are not permitted to market their units in other Member States .
Obviously , this inhibits competition and innovation and restricts the public ' s range of savings options .
The Commission ' s proposal with which we are dealing today is in two parts .
The first concerns the product , that is to say the funds . The other concerns the collective investment undertakings .
Special risk-spreading rules are proposed in respect of such investments , involving both quantitative and qualitative criteria .
In addition , the Commission ' s proposal puts forward special risk-spreading rules for funds whose aim is to replicate a particular stock index , a so-called index fund .
The committee wishes to make the requirements in relation to the Commission ' s proposal more stringent .
To guarantee transparency and prudence , investments in non-harmonised funds should only be allowed on condition that qualitative criteria , for example a transparency requirement and investor protection , are introduced .
In addition , quantitative criteria ( risk exposure ) should be introduced .
Moving on now , then , to the point where there is ( or , I hope , was ) a lack of agreement , namely OTC derivatives .
The Commission ' s proposal makes a distinction between derivatives dealt in on regulated markets and derivative instruments not dealt in on regulated markets ( so-called OTC derivatives ) .
In recent years , the derivatives market has grown very rapidly in almost all the Member States .
It is therefore important that regulation of derivatives is flexible so that the market is not tied down ahead of future developments .
The definitions ' standardised futures contracts ' and ' standardised options ' should therefore be combined to form a new definition , ' financial derivative instruments ' , which also covers OTC derivatives .
Investment in OTC derivatives , however , should only be allowed on condition that both quantitative and qualitative criteria are introduced .
They are very important in this case . They must be introduced to guarantee the protection of investors .
The Commission ' s second proposal focuses on the bodies which manage UCITS , that is to say management companies .
The rules for management companies , for example the conditions for starting up and conducting business , are brought into line with the existing rules and regulations .
A crucial point is that rules are proposed for so-called simplified prospectuses .
Relevant information must be given to prospective unit-holders in a fund in a language which is readily understandable to investors in the host country .
In this regard , too , the committee is prepared to go further than the Commission .
A question which has also been discussed in the committee is that of the capital contribution to be required from management companies .
There are different views on this .
One of the most important things , for me , personally , is that the common regulations should not cause smaller companies to go under .
During the months that I have been working on this report , one very clear demand has emerged , both from industry and from those who represent the consumer .
The current situation is not good .
Both savers and the industry need modernised regulations for the whole of Europe .
I believe that today ' s proposal strikes a good balance between liberalisation of the market and the desire for effective protection for investors .
I just want to conclude by saying that a number of Members of Parliament think that the present proposal goes too far , while others think that I am not sufficiently liberal .
To them I just want to say , as the English expression goes , ' You can ' t have it all . '
.
Mr President , at the outset I wish to place on the official record of the House my thanks for the tremendous work undertaken by Mr Schmidt , our rapporteur .
I was in fact the surrogate father of these reports during the previous Parliament .
We failed over the last six years to get any compromise or agreement with regard to this matter .
In a short space of time Mr Schmidt has managed to bring it forward to this final stage within Parliament .
I thank him for that .
There is little disagreement amongst Members with regard to the first proposal .
It puts into place a certain number of controls and mechanisms to ensure that we can have this kind of harmonised regulatory authorities .
However , it is in relation to the second proposal that there is most concern .
I have a number of ideas which should be put across .
Firstly , the idea of an EU passport for management companies is to be welcomed ; and the home-state approval rule is also to be welcomed .
However , instead of imposing a new regime , we could have used the Investment Services Directive as the analogy for this regime .
It seems unusual that we failed to grasp that opportunity .
Many Members have been working on the basis of trying to protect their own countries ' national interests rather than improving the overall system for Europe .
We will have to revisit this issue again in the near future .
I call on Members to ensure by their votes today or that we can put Europe on a sound footing for the short term , if not for the long term .
As indicated by the rapporteur , we are discussing probably one of the most important issues that we will ever have to discuss in this Parliament .
This is the main reason why we must proceed with liberalisation , albeit in a prudent manner .
I say this because the failure of a bank is a problem for which any government can find a solution .
However , the failure and suspension of payments of this type of undertaking would create a political , social and personal problem with incalculable consequences .
There is also a second reason why prudence is needed in the regulation of these undertakings .
Firstly , there is the problem of investment in non-harmonised undertakings falling outside this directive .
It would be wrong to allow the regulated and protected undertakings to invest in other undertakings involved in such risky investments .
Secondly , the problem of derivatives is one which has created the most divisions , both within my Group and between the groups .
We have achieved a compromise solution .
Everyone accepts that investments in derivatives must be legally limited in order to prevent a harmonised fund losing all its assets due to an investment in high-risk products .
It is clear that this risk is greater when the investment is in derivatives not dealt in on a regulated market , namely the famous OTC derivatives .
We have achieved an acceptable compromise solution on this , or so we believe , which I welcome .
As this issue will be returning to this House at some stage , I must highlight the working method used between the Commission and this Parliament .
The texts before us today are old and were already old when they reached this House . This was because they were substantially amended during the Finnish Presidency .
We are therefore faced with two options . We can either return the proposals to the Commission for the latter to present a harmonised text or we can continue the current process .
Mr President , the Socialist Group supports the Commission ' s efforts to implement the action plan for financial services .
Obviously , in the wake of the introduction of the euro , we need to create an integrated European financial market which is similar to the American and Japanese markets .
The debates on UCITS gave rise to speeches on behalf of all sorts of lobbies and heated debate in the relevant committee .
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur , Mr Olle Schmidt , and also Mr Garca-Margallo y Marfil , for their constructive approach .
The Socialists recognise the importance of the investment fund industry to the development of our economies and to the allocation of resources .
But the world of international finance is a dangerous one .
The capital markets are still at the mercy of their excesses .
There is at present a surfeit of cash looking for a home .
In 1999 , the increase in the means of payment in the world resulted in over-stimulated stock exchanges and an explosion in the volume of transactions , pushing up the prices of long-term financial and real assets .
And as international financial activity speeds up , the risks increase .
The legislature has a duty to contain the risk inherent in the continuing deregulation of the European financial markets .
By definition , investment funds use other people ' s money .
The legislator should protect the general interest and introduce safeguard clauses .
There is no freedom without rules .
We have done away with so-called master-feeder structures .
These feeder funds exist in the United States , which is an area with a single supervisory authority and a single legal system .
The European market is still fragmented and such structures would doubtless cause problems .
The Socialists , like the Commission , question the advisability of allowing investment funds to invest in so-called over-the-counter derivatives , i.e. products negotiated between professionals by private contract .
As these transactions are generally not subject to prudential control , the risks are all the more obvious .
The Socialist Group has tabled amendments proposing both quantitative and qualitative safeguard clauses in order to contain the risks to investors .
By adopting these amendments , Parliament will allow recourse to OTC derivatives but will also limit the risk to private investors .
Mr President , there is much talk at present of the principle of good governance .
This principle should not only guide the public sector , it should also guide the private sector , especially financial undertakings .
I firmly believe that the prudent use of derivatives can help fund secure , safer , higher returns .
Despite their image of danger , derivatives are usually used by asset managers as insurance .
Is this speculative ?
Not at all .
Imagine you have spent some months building up a portfolio of shares in companies in which you are confident : they have good management , good prospects and they are good investments .
Then you become worried that the whole stock market is going to collapse , as it did in 1987 .
You have the option of selling off everything and getting into cash , but that would be to waste your research into the winners .
It would also incur all the transaction costs of selling your shares and then buying them again after the fall .
The solution is to take out a derivative which pays off if the NASDAQ or CAC 40 falls .
In exchange , you might also have given up some of the upside of the markets .
In this case , which is perhaps the most common use of derivatives by asset managers , you reduce your potential reward but you also reduce your potential risk .
That is a desirable development in a soundly managed fund .
History demonstrates that investors benefit from a liberal and light-handed approach to regulation .
Heavy-handedness - a prescription of how private sector managers should invest and where they should invest - will merely reduce returns to savers .
These are of course the returns after deducting all losses .
Do not confuse a real concern for the interests of investors with a populist fear of the new and the innovative and liberal approach that pays off .
This is what we should be concerned about here today .
Mr President , the report presented to us today seeks to complete the free movement of financial investments in Europe , including the most sophisticated forms of investment .
We do not , in principle , oppose this industry .
We shall therefore vote cautiously on all amendments limiting recourse to excessively derivative instruments and we shall vote in favour of all amendments which limit the excessive concentration of assets within a single financial group .
But we make no bones about the fact that we shall vote against the text as a whole .
We shall also vote in the future against any proposals to deregulate the financial markets and we call on all the other political groups to do likewise until such time as taxation on investment income is finally harmonised .
For years certain countries , including Great Britain , have been blocking harmonisation and turning their financial centres into tax havens .
They even reject the strict minimum , i.e. the Monti package proposed by the Commission in Brussels .
This attitude is turning Europe into a machine which exempts investment income from tax and shifts the whole tax burden to commercial income , with all the social and even moral consequences which that implies .
We must put an end to this .
By blocking the demands of the financial industry , the European Parliament has the means to ensure that countries which have been turned into tax havens end up with their back against the wall .
Mr President , the 1985 directive introduced a sort of European visa for certain types of UCITS which could be marketed throughout the Union .
Since then , the capital market and transferable securities have not just continued to evolve ; thanks to unbridled financial globalisation , they have exploded exponentially and without restraint .
This brings us to the two proposals for directives .
The second proposal , on which the report is excellent , does not require any particular comment . It aims to strengthen consumer protection and security .
That is the thrust of an amendment which we have tabled ; it favours all the languages of the Community and our agreement to the second directive will depend on it .
The same cannot be said of the first proposal .
We might have been able to agree to the original text insofar as it was informed by a legitimate concern to update current legislation .
However , we are unable to agree to the text of the report , although I welcome the work carried out by Mr Schmidt , for several reasons .
We shall also vote against the abolition of the facility for the Member States to increase to 35 % ...
( The President cut the speaker off )
Mr President , this is a vital issue for Europe .
A Europe that faces an impending pensions time bomb must take every step to encourage saving and maximise the return that the people of Europe can obtain on their savings .
I welcome many of the developments which Mr Schmidt ' s report brings us .
UCITS are a success story within the European Union .
They are a safe product , traded cross-border .
But it is time for the legislation to be updated .
Mr Schmidt has done an excellent job here .
It is no secret that I would have much preferred Mr Schmidt ' s report not to have been altered so much as it passed through Parliament .
But I appeal to this House to take a balanced and common-sense approach on this issue .
The radical step taken by this report is to allow UCITS to use over-the-counter derivatives .
I appeal to everyone here to evaluate the products which will be used by UCITS .
We are not talking about the use of derivatives for speculation .
We are talking about the use of derivatives to reduce risk and to increase the returns on the savings of ordinary Europeans .
Mr Schmidt is to be applauded for having obtained the support of Parliament for over-the-counter derivatives .
We must not be afraid to go forward , to react to changes in the market .
Yes , we need to continue to ensure that UCITS provide a balanced and protected product for consumers .
The report gives very adequate protection for consumers .
But a number of the amendments go too far in restricting the use of over-the-counter derivatives .
I feel these derivatives will be an addition to the portfolio of unit trusts , which can only help individual people around Europe obtain a high return on their savings .
I salute Mr Schmidt .
Thank you very much Mr Kuckelkorn .
Ladies and gentlemen , I have an update for you on the curtain and window situation .
If we open this curtain , then we will find that there is a partition wall behind it which cannot just be removed straight away .
We will therefore have to defer this experiment until the next plenary sitting .
However , I will make sure that we have a go then and see how the land lies .
Mr President , the UCITS directive has been an enormous success since it entered into force on 1 October 1989 , mainly thanks to the excellent protection which it offers investors .
The directive and the reputation which UCITS enjoy with investors have allowed the investment fund industry to multiply its assets in the European Union fivefold .
There has been a strong increase in cross-border marketing of investments within the European Union and the directive itself is used as a model for legislation throughout the world .
However , the directive is ten years old and , now that the markets have developed and more and more sophisticated financial products are available , it is somewhat outdated .
The Commission proposals being debated here will give it the face-lift it needs .
In addition , investors often have better protection with an actively-managed fund .
My Amendment No 47 is therefore a warning for amateurs .
This concept does not exist under European law because it is impossible to implement and equally impossible to control in practice .
At the same time , it is important to appreciate the economic importance of financial business dealings , particularly those we are concerned with today .
At the end of 1999 there were almost 15 000 investment funds registered as UCITS with a total value of in excess of EUR 2 billion , thereby accounting for roughly 75 % of all funds assets .
Hence the Commission rightly cited the economic importance thereof in its proposals for draft directives , and I must say that I actually have every confidence in the Commission ' s proposal .
This therefore represents a step forward in respect of the legal and supervisory stipulations for financial markets and financial products .
Why do we not take our cue from the minimum level of protection afforded by the trade in transferable securities directive , Article 11 for example , which relates to good practice ?
Mr President , Commissioner , the proposal for a directive now under discussion brings with it several welcome reforms to the current legal provisions .
The preparatory work has largely consisted of a viable balance between increasing the efficacy and growth of the European investment markets and preserving a sufficient level of protection for consumers who buy fund units .
The greater the trust consumers have in investment market operations , the more consumers will be prepared to invest on the open market .
And the more consumers invest , the brighter the prospects will be in the European business money markets .
It is quite clear that when businesses can more easily have access to their own capital-based finances their financial structure will be more firmly based , and , thus , opportunities for growth and investment will also improve .
Whether or not the money will come onto the equity market in the form of direct investment or via UCITS is not relevant here .
Although in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs we were very much in agreement with the aims of the legislative amendment , the debate we had was not the easiest one .
For me personally at least , difficulties were caused by the directive ' s technical division into two different proposals , which certainly did not make it easier to familiarise oneself with this very difficult technical subject .
However , I would like to express my position with regard to a few detailed proposals .
Firstly , I am very satisfied that the proposal for a directive as a whole increases the scope of investment funds for targeting capital at different instruments .
As regards derivatives , I consider the position adopted by the committee justified - unlike Mrs Randzio-Plath , for example .
The directive should not treat over-the-counter derivatives differently from standard derivatives because they are used in many Member States and were also used before .
Mr President , I see two problems with this morning ' s debate .
Firstly , when I came to this Parliament many years ago I was told that if you had a difficult job you gave it to a Liberal .
Now I have been told that if you have a difficult debate you know you are in trouble if half the Luxembourg Members are in the Chamber at one time - and they are .
Firstly , I welcome proposal No 1 . It simplifies things and brings things up to date .
I think many of the British Members will be voting against a large number of the amendments in the report .
We support the Schmidt report on proposal No 1 , but we regret the fact that the directive sets a lot of quantity limits that restrict the ability to spread risks .
We believe that a more liberal market is the best way forward .
Secondly , we consider proposal No 2 to be very confused .
It is difficult to understand , and we think the Commission would be well advised to look at it again .
If further regulation is needed , we feel that it could be better achieved by other means than those proposed in the directive .
In particular , we disagree with the proposal on capital requirements because if they are put too high they could actually drive some businesses out of the industry altogether .
We ask the Commission to look again at these proposals .
Mr President , money does not smell , as the Romans would say .
The important thing is for money to generate more money .
In this we are combining the interests of these citizens with the interests of pensioners who want to live life in tranquillity .
Pensioners will , in the future - as is already happening - have enormous sums of money at their disposal .
Indeed , whilst the young are penniless , the elderly have accumulated money and , since they are keen to turn it to good advantage , harbour great hopes for this directive .
Since the approval of Directive 85 / 611 , the investment funds sector has undergone lengthy development and it is now important to modernise the rules .
The aim of the new proposals is to maintain the highest level of protection for the benefit of investors , which is an essential precondition for market integration resulting from the launch of the euro .
Since the average European family puts its savings in investment funds , the proposals contain provisions on prudent management - and I would like to underline this - prudent management as far as investment policy and risk-spreading are concerned .
The two proposals form a coherent whole .
The first proposal extends the number of instruments in which an ' undertaking for collective investment in transferable securities ' ( UCITS ) can invest .
As already remarked in this session , UCITS are key players within the modern capital markets .
Their presence offers the opportunity to a larger number of ordinary investors to participate in these markets , in which the principle of risk-spreading is taken into consideration , protected by appropriate supervision .
Since diverse types of investment are permitted , private investors can also benefit from all the advantages of new investment techniques .
The second proposal expands the role which these important intermediary organisations can play within the EU capital markets in terms of developing the investment funds sector .
The Commission welcomes many of the clarifications proposed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs with open arms and will adopt a large number of its ideas .
I also value the ideas put forward in Amendments Nos 1 , 10 , 11 , 14 , 18 and 20 , although the wording needs to be adapted .
I also endorse the rationale underlying the general maximum percentage of the counterparty risk in Amendments Nos 17 , 36 and 45 .
I can also accept the idea in the second proposed paragraph of Amendment No 47 .
All the amendments I have listed so far pertain to the first proposal .
The Commission has suggested adopting the content of these , with certain changes in the wording .
The Commission is in favour of codification and will , in the foreseeable future , once the proposals have been approved and subject to its right of initiative , concentrate its efforts on drafting a codified version .
However , I cannot accept the wording of the consideration as it stands .
Amendment No 8 because the proposed , general reference to assets ' covered by this directive ' , instead of the more precise reference to assets ' mentioned in Article 19 of this Directive ' , hinders implementation .
This Amendment could also lead to different interpretations in the Member States , which might well look for similar instruments in other articles of the directive .
Amendment No 16 jeopardises the protection of investors because a blocked security deposit with a third party custodian is a contradiction in terms .
Neither are securities lending transactions via securities clearing houses or exchanges - as opposed to the purchase and sale of securities - automatically covered by these institutions .
We cannot , therefore , adopt the proposed Amendment for this reason .
Amendment No 42 relates to a provision which was not changed by the proposal and which has not caused any problems since the implementation of the directive .
I therefore cannot see any reason why Article 22 , paragraph 3 should be omitted and reject the amendment for this reason .
This goes against the Commission ' s intention to widen the scope of investments , and the wording thereof could contravene GATS agreements .
The key issue regarding the first proposal , however , is Parliament ' s amendment which allows the use of over-the-counter instruments for general investment purposes .
The Commission points out that , according to the national legislation of some Member States , the use of OTC derivatives for general investment purposes is already authorised .
However , the Commission will be suspending its position , given the intrinsically high risks of these investments compared to the more traditional financial instruments .
I believe that OTC instruments could lead to problems , because they are not liquid , the price is difficult to estimate and they entail uncovered counterparty risks .
It seems inconsistent to opt for an extremely prudent approach with regard to investments as non-harmonised funds or deposits and , at the same time , freely to allow investments in clearly more risky OTC instruments .
By rejecting the rapporteur ' s Amendment No 39 , the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has aligned itself with the Council .
The upshot of this amendment by Parliament would be that funds are allowed , in theory , to invest in OTC instruments and to trade the rights of participation in their funds across the entire internal market .
In practice , access to other EU markets for these theoretically harmonised funds which invest in OTC instruments can be blocked by applying different national legislative frameworks and protective measures against OTC investments .
This would contravene the fact that EU legislation applies to all funds which invest in OTC instruments .
As far as the second proposal is concerned , I already mentioned that the Commission will take into consideration many amendments .
The application of the provisions of the directive concerning the performance of services in the field of investments in securities , better known as ISD , is therefore unnecessary and could lead to difficulties or confusion .
Amendment No 34 is unacceptable because a simple deletion of the reference to pension funds can create ambiguity as to whether or not a management company can carry out these activities .
Amendment No 35 cannot be accepted because legally , it cannot command any authority .
Management companies which are denied access to a Member State would need to re-incorporate as a different legal entity in order to be permitted in another Member State .
I would like to finish off by commenting on the remarks made by a few Members this morning and , Mr President , with your permission , I will do this in English .
Furthermore the proposal put forward by Mr Crowley would require a change of the ISD which at present - as I am sure he already knows - does not cover collective management business .
Lastly , his proposal would not give any passport to management companies which do not want to render ISD activities .
As regards the question put by Mr Huhne , his reference in the intervention he made this morning is to hedging operations .
But hedging operations are already allowed in the existing Article 21 ( 1 ) of Directive 611 / 85 on UCITS .
So what Mr Huhne wants is already possible .
A question has been put by Mrs Villiers who referred to enhancing portfolio management .
That is also something which is allowed under present legislation .
I refer to the same Article 21 I referred to in relation to Mr Huhne ' s question .
In her question Mrs Kauppi asks why the Commission has prepared a package of measures distributed in two separate proposals .
The reason is that the first proposal focuses essentially on the product , while the second proposal focuses essentially on the service provider , and on prospectuses for UCITS .
The separation of these two proposals which deal with two different sets of problems would facilitate the negotiating process in the Council .
The Commission has not only to listen to Parliament and take into account parliamentary proposals but , as is well-known , must also deal with the Council .
That is the reason why the Commission has put forward these two separate proposals .
Lastly , Mr Balfe has complained that there are , in his opinion , too many limits in the whole proposal the Commission has put forward .
These are the reasons why the Commission believes , because of the prudence that has to be exercised in this field , that these various limits are necessary .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place at 12 noon .
Mutual assistance in criminal matters between the Member States
It is thus , as you can see , a very important draft , that will effectively serve to provide the Member States of the Union with a more comprehensive and consistent instrument for mutual assistance .
In actual fact , there are still certain differences of opinion within the Council over the type of convention , and over certain provisions contained therein .
Some of these differences have already been ironed out , but others persist .
Mr President , international cooperation is certainly needed in order to tackle both cross-border crime and crimes which are committed in one State , but the evidence for which is to be found in another .
These are thus extremely important questions , which we hope that the Council will see fit to take up when formulating a new opinion .
As regards other aspects of this subject , Mr President , I would refer you to my written report .
- ( ES ) Mr President , I want to start by saying that I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party which I represent on this issue .
I should like to draw attention to the fact that the Council is not present today .
By contrast , I welcome the attentive presence of Commissioner Vitorino , as has consistently been the case since his appointment . This leads me to another point .
I condemn this , as well as the Council ' s absence .
These are serious matters on which this House must act .
We are about to advance into new territory where attitudes and symbols are of great significance .
A political community is reflected in the justice which it hands out .
This is why this report is so important .
It represents a step towards the area of freedom , security and , particularly , justice to which we all aspire . It is also an important step towards European natural justice .
Mr President , as the rapporteur said , this House has concentrated on the particular issue of phone tapping in order to remove this from the Convention .
The regulation of phone tapping in the Council document was incomplete and therefore inadequate .
Yet a lack of regulation is also inappropriate and may lead to abuses in the telecommunications field . In fact , we are aware that these are already happening widely .
The other point which I must highlight and on which we have also worked extensively is the use of video conferencing with regard to accused persons .
Apart from a few exceptions , the Members of the Group of the European People ' s Party will vote in favour of the committee ' s amendments , and of course our own .
Restrictions on fundamental rights cannot and must not be applied to the field of law unless they are justified in that they are associated with an actual or presumed violation of criminal law .
This is only the beginning of a great project in the field of law , which should advance hand in hand with the growth the type of Europe we want to see .
Mr President , committee amendments and political group amendments may be tabled in plenary , but not amendments from individual Members .
Mr Schulz should be aware of this .
Crime in the European Union has increased to such an extent that we cannot and must not content ourselves any longer with a step-by-step approach of mutual legal assistance in criminal affairs .
The European Parliament is certainly not to blame for this .
It is the governments of the Member States who have restricted the amount of leeway to this degree .
As a result , the European Parliament is faced with an almost impossible task .
One has to content oneself with the idea that all means , however slight , must be seized upon in order to set up better legal assistance .
I would therefore make an urgent appeal to the Council of Ministers to finally face reality , that is to say the fact that crime is developing faster than the law .
If not , we will be fighting a running battle .
I therefore advocate further harmonisation of criminal law in the EU Member States in the first instance .
In my opinion , this is the only way to fight crime effectively across all Member States .
As long as this harmonisation has not been achieved , however , we need to be consistent if we want to bring about mutual legal assistance .
The content of my amendment is , in fact , echoed in Amendment No 43 , which also stipulates this condition of accrual .
This condition of accrual is essential since , in my opinion , the principle of nulla poena sine lege , legality in criminal law , must be observed .
As such , any request for legal assistance concerning a hypothetical action which is not a crime in the petitioned Member State contravenes this principle of legality and thus the fundamental principles of justice in the petitioned Member State .
Hence , it is extremely important that this condition of accrual be adopted .
If , however , we would like to give European citizens a greater sense of security , we need to step up our efforts in the field of judicial cooperation .
Mr President , my Group is delighted about the fact that an agreement will be reached to regulate the day-to-day practice of mutual assistance in legal affairs .
The aim of regulations is to define the reciprocal rights and duties of States or citizens or those applicable in the relationship between citizens and government .
The present proposal is complex , because it deals with agreements between Member States but has far-reaching consequences for the citizen-government relationship .
It is precisely in the field of legal protection that the Council ' s proposal leaves a great deal to be desired .
In the words of rapporteur Mr Di Pietro , the proposal even contains colossal shortcomings .
Thanks to the agreement , it is possible to create a chain of legal assistance requests , whereby each link represents authorities and criminal law systems of different Member States .
The chain is arranged in such a way as to ensure that it cannot fall as a whole within the competence of one court .
Additional measures are hence required , such as the obligation on the part of criminal investigators to give evidence in every criminal case in which their material is used .
The fact that the Council ' s proposal rides roughshod over the principle of proportionality is also hard to deal with for my Group .
There are certainly no restrictions in its scope .
As such , the agreement applies not only to fighting serious crimes and organised crime .
In fact , it is not written anywhere that it is restricted to criminal law .
It is , therefore , conceivable that the European Union will soon be taking a sledgehammer to crack a nut and that the rights of the citizen will vanish in the dust .
Mr President , the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters that we are examining today contains the minimum requirements for efficient and rapid cooperation between the various judicial or investigative bodies concerned .
I hope that the common sense of our fellow MEPs in the other groups will lead them to reject these amendments .
The fact that the convention has not been turned into a framework agreement also constitutes a defeat for this Parliament .
We need a corpus iuris - as everyone has said - and common rules , especially procedural ones , which guarantee the rule of common law throughout the Community .
I believe that this first half of the year , in which we have a Commissioner from Portugal and Portuguese Presidency of the Council , provides an excellent opportunity to give an initial spur to this shared aspiration .
It is precisely for this reason that we are in favour of adopting Amendments Nos 78 and 79 , which already prefigure a minimum of set rules on interceptions and on video conferences .
Mr President , confronted with the burgeoning phenomenon of organised crime at international level , the Member States must surely cooperate with one another as much as possible .
Furthermore - and I agree with the assessment made by Mr Di Pietro - the Council ' s text would appear to be overladen with contradictions , inconsistent propositions and omissions .
It is clear that the justice sector , more than any other , cannot be handled in an inconsistent or contradictory manner .
The report contains arguments that are too disparate , which do not link together smoothly , and everything thus hinges on approximations .
We must first establish general rules and institutional certainties . Only then will we be able to institute actual conventions .
The committee and the rapporteur have incorporated nine of the eleven amendments that we presented , and these centred precisely on the rights of the defence .
This is the problem , and it is for this reason that we are critical of the position adopted by the Council , which is one we find completely unsatisfactory .
In my Group , there are undoubtedly different views of Mr Di Pietro ' s report .
I agree that it is - as has been said - a good and competent piece of work , which has been carried out under difficult conditions .
The Danish Members of the Group cannot vote in favour of the proposal but will , on the contrary , be supporting a number of amendments , especially those tabled by the Greens .
There are two reasons why we are saying no .
Firstly , these are immensely complicated and very sensitive legal questions which are at issue and , to my mind , the proposal entails some risks to legal certainty , which have not been fully realised .
This is in itself sufficient reason for us to deny our support .
The other main reason , however , is that , even though we are concerned here with a Convention ( and therefore with international cooperation ) , there is no doubt about the trend expressed in the proposal .
And the trend is towards creating , in the longer term , a common European area of jurisdiction , common EU criminal law and common EU administration of justice .
We would warn against that trend .
I personally find it unacceptable , for example , for Mr Pinochet to be given the option to move to Spain for a confrontation .
Or when it is maintained that the witness or expert witness - and not simply the defendant - should have a counsel at their side during examination via a video or telephone link .
These are nevertheless minor flaws , which the rapporteur did not want and which - I hope - will be remedied when this Chamber comes to vote .
The rapporteur has made laudable efforts , which should not go unnoted and for which I would like to thank him .
The overall result is remarkable and I hope that the Council will fully take it into account .
This is a highly controversial issue as it constitutes a potential source of abuse .
It could be maintained that in overall terms the legislation proposed is better than nothing , but to the Commission it nevertheless appeared insufficient and far from reassuring .
This is a distant goal , but is one that can be attained in stages .
The most important thing will be the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States , but for now let us content ourselves with this small step forward , as it is a step in the right direction .
Mr President , first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent explanatory statement .
It points out some of the serious flaws in this proposal .
The lack of clarity of language is inevitably going to lead to legal uncertainty .
Legal certainty is something that is essential in such crucial matters .
Because of shoddy drafting the Convention can be interpreted very widely , and it ignores the strict conditions which interception is supposed to be subject to under the European Convention on Human Rights .
Article 18 allows interception in another Member State without its involvement .
Not only should this be deleted , the whole interception title should be scrapped .
An initiative of the FBI drew up the user requirements which form the basis of the current legislation .
The Council proposal containing those requirements , ENFOPOL 98 was approved by this Parliament last May in the Schmid report .
Now we are being asked to provide the legal base for such interception , and it is the combination of these two documents that should be looked at .
I would also like to ask : given that the user requirements specify that the police has access to all service providers without exception , does this include Parliament ' s in-house service ?
Are we adopting rules that will allow the police access to our own systems on very , very shoddy grounds ?
Furthermore , in this proposal there is no threshold for serious offences .
This leaves it wide open to abuse .
Again as regards the reversal of the burden of proof , something which is recognised in international , fundamental law , the presumption of innocence is essential .
That is not guaranteed .
Neither the preamble nor the body of the text takes proper account of the rights of the defence , a basic principle of international fundamental rights .
This issue is extremely serious .
In that sense , the issues of judicial cooperation in matters of criminal law are important .
What did I understand on reading the related texts ?
In my opinion , the Legal Affairs Committee and the rapporteur Mr Di Pietro have produced some very interesting work .
It is a pity that this very well constructed explanatory statement by Mr Di Pietro could not be conveyed in the telegrammatic five minutes he had here today .
Nevertheless , it is a move towards protecting the rights of countries , defendants and citizens , a path which I think must be pursued much more completely and much more boldly .
I should like , however , to draw your attention to the fact that all this is taking place in a framework in which there is confusion and a schizophrenic attitude about criminal law .
How can there be any cooperation on criminal matters on that basis ?
On 14 December 1999 , a five year-old boy called Clment was found in a sleeping-car on the Calais-Ventimiglia train , crying for his mother who was taking him to visit his sick grandmother .
Corinne Caillaux , who had probably been raped , was found with her throat cut and covered in stab wounds in the lavatories on the train .
Rezala should never have been in France . He arrived from Algeria at a time when , according to the authorities , immigration had been stopped and there was no reason for him to come .
He should never have stayed in France , having been reported to the transport police more than 40 times for offences , which should have been enough for him to be expelled back to his home country .
He should never have been free because 14 charges of theft , violence and rape had been brought against him , one of which was for the rape of a minor .
He should never have been able to escape from France , but the officers pursuing him had no jurisdiction and European frontiers have more holes than a sieve .
He should never have arrived in Spain , where he mugged a woman at knifepoint and yet was immediately released by the Spanish authorities .
Today , thanks to the complex networks of sexual deviants , he is in Portugal .
Portugal refuses to extradite him on the grounds that he would face a longer prison sentence in France than that provided for in the Portuguese penal code .
I should like to ask the Portuguese minister , the President-in-Office of the Council , to put a stop to this scandal at once .
I should like to ask the House to wake up , at long last , to the appalling situation of the victims of policies for which the establishment , not the yobs , bears full responsibility .
Mr President , this agreement deals with a sensitive issue : cooperation in the field of criminal law .
It is therefore understandable that the Council finds it difficult to agree .
Successful application of this agreement by the Member States requires unanimity within the Council .
Only a broadly based agreement makes any sense in practice .
This , however , does not mean that the Council can work on this anonymously .
Quite the reverse , in fact . The Council ' s proposal must comply with legislation of the national Member States in the field of criminal law .
The wish to reach a unanimous decision can lead to compromises which do not stand this test .
Careful parliamentary scrutiny by the European Parliament but , above all , by the national parliaments , is therefore of key importance .
Mr Di Pietro ' s proposal to omit the current Article 18 regarding intercepting telecommunications , amongst other things , is understandable , although very strict .
The text of Article 18 is ambiguous : he is restricting the activities of the intelligence services but seems to allow interception activities by a Member State in another Member State without the latter ' s prior authorisation .
In this way , Member States would make themselves very vulnerable and it is doubtful as to whether there are sufficient guarantees to protect the State where interception occurs and the citizens within that State .
I am aware of the problems but I think that these could have been clarified by means of one single change in the text .
The Dutch Members of the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities will , however , despite hesitation , not withhold their support for the Di Pietro report in the final vote .
This clearly only applies to relations at national level as nothing is mentioned about the much-discussed European citizenship .
On one hand judicial measures fall outside the Community dimension yet on the other we have the free movement of people from which criminals are also benefiting .
As for videoconferencing , more precise regulations must be established so that the rights of the defence and guarantees of fair trials are safeguarded .
The procedural aspect of the legal system must be respected by defending the rights ...
( The President cut the speaker off )
Mr President , legislating in criminal matters is often countered , wrongly , with arguments of individual freedom and security .
Is one secure when freedoms are no longer guaranteed ?
Is one free when security is no longer assured ?
Modern criminal law revolves around the quest for a balance , a dialogue between security and freedom .
And this dialogue is open-ended ; it adapts to the demands of the day .
Nowadays , certain forms of crime are cross-border crimes and it is , of course , in the interests of the Member States to improve cooperation so that they can crack down on them .
But the Council ' s draft leaves a lot to be desired and attracts criticism on several counts .
First , the form : the draft convention is vague in the extreme , and this is totally incompatible with the objective of legal certainty in a modern society .
It is not just a question of style .
We are taking about criminal law here and criminal law has to be interpreted by the letter .
It makes provision in article 9 for prisoners held in custody to be transferred from one state to another despite the fact that guarantees differ .
I should like to stress this point because it is paramount .
It is nothing less than legal torture .
Other European countries , on the other hand , do not accept confession as sufficient proof of guilt .
I turn to Mr Schulz in confirming that we always submit amendments not on a personal basis or for personal motives , but in connection with general political concerns .
If it is then a question of listing the areas investigated or researching these , they can be found with the rapporteurs , among them the author of the report on this convention .
I thus believe that Mr Schulz could have spared himself the effort of making certain remarks .
In brief , this Parliament wanted the convention to apply solely to criminal matters ; the restrictions on freedom and on fundamental rights set out in the convention can but be limited to criminal matters .
We need hard and fast rules .
The Council has behaved in an unseemly manner , changing tack in mid-course , and is nowhere to be seen .
We would , on the other hand , like to thank Commissioner Vitorino for attending the debate held in this Chamber .
.
Mr President , the draft Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union is approaching adoption by the Council .
Most say it is about time .
According to the action plan to combat organised crime adopted by the Council in April 1997 , the work on the draft MLA Convention should have been finalised before the end of 1997 .
More time will pass before the Convention actually enters into force , given the fact that this requires Member States ' ratification .
Past experience with ratification of European Union conventions in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters is unfortunately disappointing .
This Convention will not create a new or different system of Mutual Assistance .
The draft that the Council has elaborated contains provisions on a variety of matters that have been discussed by several Members of Parliament .
It is a considerable achievement of the Convention that where at all possible requested Member States shall comply with the formalities and procedures indicated by the requesting Member States .
This is particularly important with regard to the possibility of using evidence that is obtained in court .
Furthermore , requests can be made directly between the competent authorities without any need to go via central authorities .
It is all too easy to get carried away by the obvious need to improve the effectiveness of criminal investigations .
However , one aspect of any action with regard to criminal procedures must not be forgotten - the right of defence .
At the present time it is entirely up to the Member States to ensure that those rights are respected under the scrutiny of the Council of Europe ' s Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg .
It remains to be seen whether this will change with the new European Union Charter on Fundamental Rights , work on which has just begun .
We must recognise that Article 18 concerns what is clearly a controversial decision .
The article was carefully crafted in Council in very lengthy discussions , in order to ensure that intelligence activities would remain effective and that criminal investigations will be covered .
The Commission is fully aware of the fact that the draft we have before us is not perfect or ideal .
However , we must be realistic .
The text we have is the result of the mixture of the institutional set-ups foreseen for judicial cooperation in criminal matters under both the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties respectively .
This is what we have , and only practical experience will show us in detail if and where there are shortcomings and what additional steps will have to be taken .
I am quite aware of the fact that the further development of mutual trust and mutual confidence among the judicial systems of the Member States will ease the road we have ahead of us .
Apart from that , the Tampere European Council has already indicated in which direction we , in the Commission , should go .
Among the steps to be taken will be the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions and the setting-up of the Euro Just project .
The Commission sincerely hopes that the European Parliament will support its efforts to make progress in these important fields .
I do not expect you to wave through or rubber stamp everything you are confronted with in the coming years .
I am counting more on the European Parliament to be not only a critical observer , as it has been in this case , but also an active player in taking the Union forward in the fight against crime .
VOTE
Madam President , my apologies , I was looking at Amendment No 36 , which logically precedes Amendment No 37 .
But , you are right , we are discussing Amendment No 37 and here too we have a similar problem .
It is not the establishments but the instruments which should have a high rating .
The text therefore reads : ' instruments with a high rating base on a recognised rating scale are subject to reliable and verifiable valuation ' .
My apologies once again for my mistake .
Are there any objections to this oral amendment ?
( Parliament adopted the oral amendment )
( Parliament adopted the two legislative resolutions in two separate votes )
I feel that this behaviour , particularly in your presence , is unacceptable and totally repugnant , especially when we are on the point of an electoral campaign .
Therefore , particularly out of respect for you , I must say that I do not approve of this type of behaviour and in fact totally reject this .
I was told that this was a personal response .
Note will be taken of it in the Minutes .
I see that Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso is asking to take the floor on the same subject .
We are not going to enter into a debate now .
I shall give you the floor for any points of order after the vote .
Relating to Amendments Nos 22 and 24
Madam President , I want to condemn the absence of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council .
I also want to mention the translation problems , of which I will give just one example , as we do not have much time .
Correct translation is vital in this subject as it involves very precise legal concepts .
Amendment No 83 in Italian , which is the original version , states that ' il minore deve essere assistito da una persona di sua fiducia o da un perito o legale esterno ' .
The term ' legale esterno ' has been translated into French as ' avocat neutre ' . I have no idea what an ' avocat neutre ' is .
It rather seems like a contradiction in terms .
However , in the Spanish version the ' abogado ' has disappeared completely .
Madam President , you have said several times that this is a very serious problem .
The lawyer-linguists should work very carefully to ensure that a reasonable version is produced .
Quite , Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi , this is not the first time and it is indeed most worrying .
We shall address this problem and check all the translations .
I should like you , Madam President , to express to the Council our wish that they be present at such votes in future .
Quite , I am well aware that their absence is highly irregular and I shall be most happy to pass this on .
Relating to Amendment No 31
( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
I just wanted to correct this .
Proposal for a resolution ( B5-0132 / 2000 ) by Mrs Bonino and others , on behalf of the TDI Group , on the Commission communication on the strategic objectives for the next five years
( Parliament rejected the proposal for a resolution )
Proposal for a resolution ( B5-0136 / 2000 ) by Mr Queiro , Mrs Muscardini and Mr Berthu , on behalf of the UEN Group , on the Commission ' s strategic objectives for 2000-2005
( Parliament rejected the proposal for a resolution )
Proposal for a resolution ( B5-0142 / 2000 ) by Messrs Mrs Hautala , Mr Lannoye and Mrs Maes , on behalf of the Verts / ALE Group , on the strategic objectives for 2000-2005
( Parliament rejected the proposal for a resolution )
Proposal for a joint resolution on the Commission ' s 5 year Strategic Programme
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
Proposal for a joint resolution on coherence of different Union policies
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
Proposal for a resolution ( B5-0125 / 2000 ) by Mr Dupuis and others , on behalf of the TDI Group , on the UN Commission on human rights
( Parliament rejected the proposal for a resolution )
Madam President , I did not want to disturb you a minute ago during the vote .
But I did notice a drop in alertness and when we debated the amendments of our Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , you mentioned the Greens on their own in every instance .
We are a group of unity in diversity . We want to bring this across in Parliament .
I would ask you to use the full name of our Group .
Very well , I shall do so .
Proposal for a joint resolution on human rights
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
Report ( A5-0032 / 2000 ) by Mr Corrie , on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation , on the results of the work of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly in 1999
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
Relating to Amendment No 6
. ( DE ) Madam President , I have an oral amendment which is in fact a clarification , because the passage concerned has been formulated differently in various translations .
I hope the person who tabled the amendment will agree to this .
This clarification would certainly meet with our approval .
Are there any objections to the inclusion of this oral amendment ?
( Parliament agreed to the oral amendment ) - Relating to Amendment No 9
I just wanted to make it clear - as it has been translated differently here - that we always use the official name FYROM .
We have encountered several problems in some of the other languages , but have not been able to check all of these , and I would thus urge you to be mindful of problems of this type .
The regulation of investments in transferable securities , the vast majority of which are made by elderly pensioners , is thus a major step forward for the European Union .
Report by Olle Schmidt ( A5-0025 / 2000 )
. ( SV ) Olle Schmidt ' s report is an improvement on the Commission ' s proposal .
In its present form , the report will contribute to further liberalisation of the capital markets , in spite of the fact that what is most important is to restrain them .
Like the whole of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , I have therefore voted against the proposal to amend Directive No 1 and have abstained from voting on the proposal to amend Directive No 2 .
Brok report ( A5-0029 / 2000 )
Madam President , there has recently been much talk of the importance of enlarging the European Union .
We have before us Malta and Cyprus , which are two States keen to become members .
. ( FR ) It is with great satisfaction that I welcome this report on the pre-accession strategy for Cyprus and Malta , whose accession is vital to the future of the European Union in the Mediterranean .
The aim of this proposal for a regulation is to set up the first programme to implement the strategy for Cyprus and Malta , starting in the year 2000 and lasting for five years ( 2000-2004 ) .
The proposal therefore aims to facilitate harmonisation of their legislation with the acquis communautaire and the correct application of the acquis communautaire .
On a more general note , it is true that the socio-economic situation in these two countries is far better than in other candidate countries .
However , they have received technical assistance and financial aid from the European Union in order to transpose the acquis communautaire .
Until 1999 , this technical assistance and financial aid was provided under the fourth financial protocols ( B7-4011 ) .
Both countries also qualify for financial aid under the MEDA programme ( B7-4012 ) .
This proposal for a regulation is supposed to be one of these legal bases !
. I welcome Mr Brok ' s report supporting with amendments the Commission ' s proposals seeking to prepare Cyprus and Malta for EU membership .
The package will grant around Euro 15 million in total for the two countries in the current year .
It is , however , regrettable that the Commission has eschewed multiannual financing and decided instead to allocate funds on a yearly basis .
This is bound to have an impact on the ability of Malta and Cyprus to plan spending .
The funding will provide technical and financial support to enable the two islands to meet the requirements of the Community ' acquis ' .
Given the already advanced state of these two countries , compared to other applicants , this should easily allow them to be ' technically and administratively ' ready for membership at the end of the 5-year programme .
Cederschild report ( A5-0020 / 2000 )
. ( FR ) As a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs during the last parliamentary term , I welcome the adoption of this framework decision on increasing protection for our single currency .
The Union should use every means at its disposal to guard against counterfeiting .
Consumers and traders are still not familiar with the euro and it would be easy for counterfeit money to be passed in supermarkets , bureaux de change and banks and not be noticed straight away .
And the fact that coins are to have a national design on one side will make them even harder to identify .
The European information centres , which are already playing a vital role in raising public awareness of the single currency , should step up their campaigns to raise public awareness of counterfeiting .
On another level , we must ensure that Community and national institutions cooperate and implement an information system to collect and exchange information on counterfeiting .
The purpose of the framework decision is to supplement the provisions of the International Convention for the Suppression of Counterfeiting Currency of 20 April 1929 and to facilitate its application by the Member States .
Each Member State must take the necessary measures to ensure that the offences set out in the framework decision are punishable .
These offences must be punishable even if they relate to banknotes and coins denominated in euros but not yet issued and if they are committed before 1 January 2002 .
This is a basic element of the decision .
I cannot but support the rapporteur in deploring the fact that the present national currencies from which the euro is to take over are not protected .
We must bear in mind that national currencies could continue to change hands for another 20 years !
They should therefore be protected by criminal sanctions against counterfeiting once they have been withdrawn from circulation .
Although this framework decision is a step in the right direction , it confines itself to increasing criminal sanctions by harmonising substantive criminal law in the form of minimum standards .
There is still no uniform criminal legislation on counterfeiting and there are 15 different national systems .
That brings us back to the more general need to approximate criminal law called for by the European Council in Tampere .
The risk of counterfeiting increases . Counterfeiting of the euro is perceived as an offence against the entire EU ; the punishment must therefore be the same in each Member State .
The harmonisation of criminal law or the introduction of minimum legal standards should not be legitimised against the background of problems of one ' s own creation but from considerations of reason and necessity .
We are therefore voting against the report and strongly urge the abandonment of the idea of harmonising criminal law on such flimsy grounds . Instead , the focus should be upon preventing the real problem .
. I welcome this proposal to protect the Euro against forgers .
When the notes and coins come into circulation after 1 January 2002 , everything possible must be done to ensure maximum confidence in the Euro .
Di Pietro report ( A5-0019 / 2000 )
. Commissioner Prodi pointed out that ' Africa is our responsibility ' and not apparently that of the USA and other major countries .
I worked in Africa 30 years ago , and it was poor and underdeveloped but the problems are now more catastrophic .
Two million people died of AIDS in Africa last year , approximately 200 000 died in wars .
In Zambia 25 % of teachers have died of AIDS .
In some countries children had a better chance of basic education and health care twenty years ago than they have today .
Our policies in Africa lack coherence .
There is huge duplication of effort .
Furthermore , the cloud of debt remains an obstacle to real development .
It is patently clear that Africa has become the forgotten continent .
. ( FR ) In its communication on its strategic objectives for 2000-2005 , the Commission repeats that Europe needs to become a ' global actor ' capable of speaking with a strong voice in the world .
What should this global actor ' s objective be ?
Doubtless our citizens would say something along the lines of ' to defend the countries of Europe better ' , since that is the traditional and primordial purpose of political associations .
And yet this phrase is nowhere to be seen .
All we find are vague phrases about ' strategic partnerships ' and the new prospects for trade which the complete integration of Europe would apparently bring with it .
The omission of this principal objective is highly revealing .
It demonstrates one of the main flaws in the European Union , a little-known , almost always implicit flaw , but one which goes a long way towards explaining our citizens ' loss of interest .
There is a highly revealing passage on this point in the work programme for the year 2000 attached to the strategic guidelines .
. ( FR ) I share the overriding sense of deep and keen dissatisfaction expressed during the debate .
I do , of course , understand the constraints of the moment and I am prepared to entertain the idea of the risk of failure ....
However , experience has taught me that , in politics , modest ambitions are never the key to success !
I shall not keep saying that I am disappointed , because you need to hope in order to be disappointed .... and I have had no hope since the investiture debate .
And yet our President is a fine economist .
For this very reason , we cannot agree to cut pensions further .
There is an agreement on this issue which provides for a review in 2001 and this must not take place one moment sooner .
What is more , the relevant cost dynamic is completely under control .
I would therefore ask the Commission to please refrain from taking this unacceptable ideological approach and making such declarations which create instability and uncertainty among the citizens .
Europe ' s role : we first need to emphasise that Europe rejects war as an instrument for resolving international conflict : only then can we talk of the ' military ' role of the Union .
. ( FR ) The proposed action and programme presented by Mr Prodi are vague in the extreme and the social question is missing yet again .
In fact , the word seems to have been banished from the Commission ' s vocabulary , whereas liberal and American references abound .
The shift in meaning is not just semantic ...
Mr Prodi talks solely of ' mechanisms ' and ' structures ' and fails to set out a single balanced project which responds to the aspirations of our people .
. ( FR ) The European Union is flaunting its unbridled expansionist ambitions .
The Commission ' s objective for the next five years is to become a ' global actor ' by showing ' genuine leadership on the world stage ' .
The nature of the EU has not changed .
Since the beginning it has served the interests of a few dozen large financial and industrial groups and their pressure groups .
But the Prodi Commission now wants to transform the EU so that it can apply for joint global governance with the United States , which it also sees as its future competitor and rival .
This new imperial policy advocates reorganising European and national institutions , strengthening the power of the state , increasing competition , establishing a European army and redistributing financial resources .
We shall vote against these objectives , because we are fighting against this policy both in Parliament and on the streets .
We abstained from the vote on the motion for a resolution for the following reasons .
Firstly , the motion does not condemn clearly enough the vagueness of the priorities and commitments indicated in the Commission ' s programme .
In our opinion , the Commission ' s role in the near future will be dependent on some of the European political initiative being returned by the governments of the Member States following the Santer Commission scandal .
This is very positive as this is how the national parliaments , on which the governments depend , will continue to show that their democratic mandate is indispensable to European construction .
The mechanisms used in the cooperation between the governments of the Member States must therefore be reinforced and made more coherent , more transparent and more democratic .
We welcome the efforts of Mr Prodi to improve the public image of the Commission and the need for the latter to agree with this House and the Council .
Corrie report ( A5-0032 / 2000 )
Madam President , the work of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly was coloured in 1999 by growing concern about the sustainability of the cooperation models derived from the Lom Conventions .
These fears have been taking shape over the last two years and the banana row is the clearest expression of them .
The developing countries are asked to fall into line with the liberalisation of trade , despite their vulnerable economies .
The cooperation agreement with South Africa is a prime example .
The Council approved the agreement negotiated by the Commission despite the fact that a basic section , namely agriculture , had not been finalised .
As Paul-Marie Coteaux rightly said in his intervention yesterday and in his proposed amendments , one wonders exactly what political coherence this blank cheque represents .
It is most worrying , especially as a similar agreement with Mexico appears to be taking shape .
Nor is it possible to support the rapporteur ' s call for the European Development Fund to be merged with the Community budget .
We want to maintain the clear commitment and the responsibility of each Member State , which is made possible by its intergovernmental nature .
Alas , there have been far too many instances of collective aid for which no-one feels responsible being derailed and we do not want to extend this disastrous system to the EDF .
Madam President , I welcome Mr Corrie ' s report as a balanced assessment of the work the Assembly has carried out over the last year .
The report comes just after agreement has been reached on the renewal of the existing Lom Convention , which expires at the end of this month .
The new agreement provides for a development budget of EUR 13.5 billion over the next seven years .
It is vital that this money is used to benefit the poorest groups and individuals within the ACP countries .
Strenuous efforts must be made to root out corruption and waste .
Civil society must be involved in the planning and implementation of these projects .
The decision to include a clause obliging ACP countries to take back illegal immigrants entering Europe is worrying and will have to be implemented with extreme sensitivity .
I hope that before the end of this new Lom Convention we will be able to welcome Cuba as a full member .
. The joint United Nations programme on AIDS estimated that by the end of 1998 , there was a total of 33.4 million people in the world living with the HIV infection .
Over 95 % of all HIV infected individuals live in the developing countries and sub-Saharan Africa is the worst affected region in the world .
While only around 10 % of the world ' s population live in sub-Saharan Africa , 70 % of all people who became infected with the AIDS virus in 1998 live there .
80 % of the 13.9 million AIDS related deaths in the world have taken place in this region .
The AIDS problem in Africa is not only a private or public health issue but a development one .
The effects of the AIDS pandemic mean that any progress in development matters in the sub-Saharan region is being neutralised or reversed .
From the data which I am referring to today , it is evident that this disease is taking a disproportionate toll on the developing countries least capable of responding to its wide-ranging impact .
It is clear that the spread of AIDS in the sub-Saharan African Continent is linked to poverty .
AIDS treatments that may cost $ 18 000 per annum for one person are obviously not affordable by countries whose annual health budget may be less than $ 5 per capita .
It is incumbent on the European Union and the United Nations to address what is a social and fatal problem in a comprehensive and strategic manner .
We must primarily ensure that the basic needs of the poorest people in the countries most affected by the AIDS disease are fully met .
These countries include Ethiopia , Lesotho , Mozambique , Tanzania , Uganda and Zambia .
Prevention education should begin early in the primary school curriculum in these countries .
Appropriate messages about the health effects of AIDS must be delivered to primary school children by teachers who are comfortable with the information that they are trying to communicate .
Health facilities and staff of NGOs need to be supported and resourced to deal effectively and appropriately with patients .
It is essential that these groups are able to obtain the limited resources they require to be effective .
At a more central level , there is a need for more effective co-ordination between government donors , international NGOs , indigenous NGOs and private sector initiatives so that scarce resources are not wasted .
Already weak economies are being further weakened in Africa by the AIDS virus .
Already stretched resources are being further stretched .
50 % or more of hospital beds are now occupied by someone suffering with an AIDS related disease in the countries where AIDS figures are highest .
I know that this is somewhat controversial , particularly , because of the attitude of the United States Government towards the Castro regime .
However , on this occasion , the European Union will be insisting on introducing political criteria into the Lom Convention Accord .
After years of ' good and loyal service ' it is still the main symbol of efforts by the European Union to promote development and improve the lot of the poorest countries .
It is the humane face of Europe ...
And the merit of Mr Corrie ' s report is that it highlights the value of this original , proactive development instrument , together with the work carried out by the Joint Assembly .
Especially as the vulnerable architecture of this ambitious structure has been threatened .
The partnership between the European Union and the ACP was negotiated in the difficult time of the changeover to the new millennium .
I am delighted that reason and generosity triumphed over the difficulties , opening new prospects for this partnership .
It should seal their revival .
It brilliantly illustrates the political dimension of a partnership which constitutes the only forum for dialogue and political exchange within north-south relations .
At a time when the Joint Assembly is opening its doors ever wider to the elected representatives from parliaments in the ACP , this dimension must not only be preserved ; above all , it must be encouraged .
The Joint Assembly also represents the tribunal before which the countries of Europe and the developing countries defend their common interests .
After the debacle in Seattle , our duty from now on is to adopt a concerted position and ensure that the rules of world trade develop and are used to fight poverty .
The partnership is here to stay and the way is clear for it to be modernised .
. ( FR ) A few days after the demonstrations in Seattle , the ministers of the European Union imposed an agreement compatible with the rules of the WTO on the ACP , i.e. their former colonies .
The European Union prefers to send its funds to Eastern Europe , the former USSR and Asia , where there is greater opportunity for profit .
Or on Shell ?
We do not accept this agreement , which deprives people of the wherewithal to build societies which are independent of the European multinationals and banks .
.
Few of my constituents will probably be aware that the EU is the biggest foreign aid donor in the world .
While others may have the biggest rockets , the EU has the deepest pockets .
This is something that the EU can rightly be proud of , and I think we should shout it from the rooftops more often .
The Labour Government ' s record in Britain is also a proud one .
Clare Short , MP , is one of the few Cabinet-level Ministers for international development in the world and , as such , can take her case to the very heart of government .
Gordon Brown , MP , meanwhile , has led international efforts to relieve crippling levels of Third World debt and ensured that Labour ' s campaign to reduce poverty does not end at the English Channel .
Whether through the minimum wage in Manchester or debt relief in Durban , Labour ' s aim of poverty reduction remains the same .
There is still much to be done , however .
The next great challenge is to re-launch the new round of world trade negotiations that failed to take off last December in Seattle .
It must be a ' development round ' , in which developing countries , effectively excluded from previous rounds , are fully included .
For the best way to reduce world poverty is to help developing countries help themselves .
Developing countries want trade not aid , a help up not a hand-out .
And the best way to help developing countries help themselves is to open up world markets to allow them to sell their products .
In this way , the power of globalisation can be harnessed for the good , to benefit the poor not just the wealthy , the many not just the few .
Thus , whether through the New Deal in Newcastle or fair trade in Freetown , Labour ' s aim of opportunity for all remains the same .
Swoboda report ( A5-0031 / 2000 )
In parallel , it can benefit from substantial financial support via the PHARE programme .
However , the EU ' s present policy in the Balkans is fragmentary , inconsistent and schizophrenic in nature .
There are different types of agreements or relations or lack of relations - going even as far as the embargo on Yugoslavia - which result in a fragmented and ineffectual approach .
There is no sense of regionality for the Balkans , which would include everyone without exceptions or vindictiveness .
Having been crushed beneath the heel of triumphant Communism , this region has not stopped paying the price for the collapse of the Soviet system since the beginning of the 1990s .
In this sense , the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is both an exemplary and a symbolic case .
Frassoni Report ( A5-0021 / 2000 )
Through the agreement , the European Parliament will automatically be sent the relevant material in connection with decisions made in accordance with the rules under Article 251 of the Treaty .
We should also like to see this arrangement extended to other areas in which , following the agreement , the European Parliament ' s relevant committees will be sent material when they ask for it .
With the approval of this agreement , we have not achieved the final goal of transparency and democratic control where the comitology procedures are concerned .
However , it constitutes real progress in the right direction , which is something we do not wish to obstruct .
( The sitting was suspended at 1.23 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m. )
Company restructuring in Europe
The next item is the Commission statement - Company restructuring in Europe .
.
Mr President , industrial change , which can be gradual or sudden , is driven by new technologies , worldwide competition or consumer preferences .
It has economic implications and an impact on employment and social cohesion , but it also provides major new opportunities when anticipated , prepared for and managed .
The acceleration of technological progress and the increasing competitive pressure of globalising markets are pushing companies to rapidly adapt their production and company structures .
Companies must be able to anticipate and identify at an early stage what they need to do to ensure the continuity of their activities .
Sometimes this calls for mergers of activities .
The Commission is acutely aware of this situation and of the need for people to feel basic security in difficult times of change .
We are convinced that the cornerstone of successful adaptation to change is dialogue at all levels and with full and transparent information as its basis .
In other cases these operations were launched and implemented with less care and concern for those affected .
On every occasion , and as recently as last October in this House , the Commission has highlighted the following basic positions .
Firstly , decisions on corporate restructuring remain the prerogative as well as the responsibility of management .
Secondly , when dismissals prove to be inevitable , the utmost must be done to reinforce the employability of those concerned .
This requires anticipation , timely preparation and careful management of these processes .
Thirdly , nothing can justify the absence of timely , effective and comprehensive information and consultation of the workers ' and employees ' representatives before such operations are launched or publicly announced .
Worker involvement is always , and particularly in the event of corporate restructuring , not only a basic right but a necessary precondition for the social acceptance of such operations .
In the end it is also a decisive factor of their success , as no collectivity can survive and prosper without trust , dialogue , partnership and solidarity between its different components .
These basic ideas meet with a wide consensus in Europe .
This is what intelligent restructuring is about .
It is more and more rare to see companies embark on damaging restructuring operations ignoring these fundamental concerns , as unfortunately was sometimes the case in the past .
We have built a wide range of instruments which meet these concerns in recent years in the European Union .
I wish to recall that it is , in principle , up to national courts to deal with possible violations of these rules , if and when they are brought before them by national representatives .
However , even when existing rules or arrangements are formally respected this does not mean that management ' s attitude is socially irreprehensible .
In fact , the Commission has argued for some time now that the rules we have established are not sufficient to deal with the challenges of today .
That is why in November 1998 the Commission presented a proposal for a directive on worker information and consultation which has since then received your strong support .
We thank you for that .
Unfortunately , the other branch of the legislative power , the Council , has not yet - more than one year after the presentation of the proposal - begun working on it .
I hope that this debate contributes to reminding Member States of the importance and urgent nature of this initiative .
We have recently heard from the Portuguese Presidency that a serious debate on this proposal will soon be launched .
The forthcoming French Presidency also seems willing to give this dossier the high priority it deserves .
As for the transnational level of employee involvement there is some indication that at least in one case the companies may have breached transnational information and consultation agreements which they had concluded with their European workforce .
They may have at least exploited some ambiguity in the legal and contractual framework in force .
The Commission will contact the relevant national authorities to check this .
In any case , I wish to say to those who believe that their rights in that respect were ignored that adequate means of enforcement and redress are available to them , notably through relevant national jurisdictional instances .
The Commission is aware of your request to proceed immediately with a revision of the European Works Council Directive .
As recognised in the report , which we will adopt in the forthcoming weeks , we accept that the directive contains some loopholes .
Nevertheless , as my colleague , Commissioner Diamantopoulou has already underlined on other occasions , when deciding whether or not to revise the directive immediately , different considerations must be taken into account .
First , any revision of the directive would have little immediate effect on existing agreements , unless the fundamental principle of respecting the autonomy of the negotiating parties no longer applies .
Secondly , an immediate revision would make things much more complicated as regards progress in respect of the other pending dossiers in this field like European company statutes and the national information and consultation proposal .
The successful outcome of these other dossiers could greatly facilitate the subsequent revision of the EWC Directive and even provide some degree of a solution to the problems identified above .
Action is not limited to legislation .
To encourage and support dialogue as the cornerstone of the successful adaptation to change the Commission is also developing the recommendations of the Lillehammer Report by preparing the setting up of a European observatory on industrial change .
We are also developing another suggestion of that expert group , the Managing Change Report .
Let me finish by addressing some of the other concerns expressed in the draft resolution submitted to this House .
Generally speaking , we recognise the need for proper consideration to be given in different instances to all aspects surrounding these kinds of operations , including their effects in terms of employment .
To this end all regional aid is made conditional on the maintenance of the investment in question for a minimum period of five years .
The same provision was included in the Structural Funds Regulation which means that it applies to all investments cofinanced by the structural funds .
Social cohesion and the interplay of policies at EU-level is the focus of the forthcoming Lisbon Summit .
Thank you very much Commissioner .
Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso , I understand you have a point of order .
If it is a personal statement , would you be prepared to wait until the end of this debate , at which stage I would be happy to call you ?
Mr President , the problem is one of public honour in this Parliament , it is not a personal statement .
This morning , the President of Parliament , Mrs Nicole Fontaine , repeatedly refused to allow me to make a point of order .
Unfortunately , this is not the first time that Madam President has shown this inadmissible behaviour towards me .
In doing so , Madam President has breached Rule 142 that states that points of order shall take precedence over all other requests to speak .
This partisan behaviour of our President should be criticised most firmly .
I will willingly accept Madam President ' s apologies any time .
Thank you for your statement .
We will certainly make sure that the President is informed of your statement .
I can assure you that as far as I am aware the President never likes to have a debate on issues in the middle of a vote .
Therefore the House was probably quite willing to go ahead at that stage .
But thank you for your remarks .
The subject in question is of great political and social importance .
Free enterprise , free movement and free competition are essential pillars of the political and economic structure of the European Union .
Company restructuring is part of the principle of free determination of investments , and must therefore be defended .
However , all too often we witness events which are in stark contrast with these principles .
An American company - Goodyear - with production sites in Italy , Germany and England , is reviewing its production and relocation , justifiably , in its own view .
Just now , Commissioner Liikanen was talking of restructuring which must not be uninformed .
Sadly , in this case , he has not taken into account those who are affected and seems not to have considered those carrying out the restructuring .
I would also like to point out to Commissioner Liikanen that it is not easy to take a matter to a national court .
Commissioner Liikanen , we expect an authoritative intervention .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , for the second time within the space of four months , we find ourselves debating the restructuring of companies in Europe .
This is - as it was the first time round - sparked off by the reorganisation of large companies , which is linked to a drop in employment .
I would like to make it quite clear that the Liberal Group is against any political interference in companies , in terms of both finance and management .
Our task is to draft legislation and to monitor to ensure that it is observed .
It appears that Goodyear in Italy received Italian and European subsidies to the tune of approximately EUR 40 million .
The company went under despite this .
This goes to show that jobs cannot be bought .
The market is a law unto itself .
As such , state aid costs the government twice : first in subsidies and then in unemployment benefit .
Surely this cannot be the role of your , my and the citizens ' tax money ?
All this , of course , does not mean that our Group does not share the concern of the Italian Members regarding the effects of the closure on the region concerned .
My Group is also opposed in principle to the naming of specific companies in this resolution , for two reasons : firstly because this creates selective responsibility .
A company is pilloried one day and not the next .
Why should this be the case ?
Michelin caused a great stir .
But I did not hear a squeak when Nissan and IBM were discussed , where , similarly , a great number of European employees were involved .
Secondly , this is not fair towards employees of other companies where reorganisations also take place and where it hurts too .
My Group has signed a joint resolution with EPP and UEN , in which , however , we made it clear right from the outset that we are against the naming of company names .
This is why the Liberal Group will vote against paragraph 8 and the second section of paragraph 9 .
If these paragraphs are nonetheless adopted , my Group will abstain from the final vote .
I do hope that this will not be necessary .
Mr President , the Portuguese Presidency and the Commission ' s strategic objectives for 2000-2005 both talk of full employment for which two essential conditions are required .
The first is to create new jobs for young people entering the labour market and the second is not to lose jobs .
Yet the current situation in Europe provides us with clear examples of how jobs are being destroyed , particularly , and most seriously , by companies which are making huge profits .
In the past , workers were asked to show their solidarity with companies in order to ensure their survival . Now the companies are making huge profits but are also making workers redundant .
Examples have been given in Spain of Michelin and ABB-Alsthom and my colleagues will give examples for Italy .
Externalising services by subcontracting these to contract companies results in stable and permanent jobs being turned into precarious jobs without union or social rights .
This is just an underhand way of making workers redundant .
Commissioner , if the European institutions really believe in what they say about full employment , they must take clear steps to secure this .
Mr President , sadly , once again , Parliament is having to discuss the restructuring of companies in Europe .
Yet again , workers are likely to lose their jobs .
This time , I am referring to the workers of the company Goodyear in Cisterna di Latina .
As has already been pointed out , in one month ' s time , 600 people and as many families could be deprived of their sole source of income .
Mr President , Commissioner , as far as restructuring goes , there is no doubt that European companies must adapt so that they are better placed to face new challenges or go under .
We are well aware of this current economic context and that the purpose of restructuring is to rationalise corporate management .
The various recent announcements referred to by previous speakers , be they by Michelin or Goodyear , are symptomatic in this respect .
Rationalised management and improved profits should , in my view , serve the company and hence its employees first and foremost , and any financial benefits should follow .
There is a very real risk of seeing a two-headed monster emerge on this planet , with poor countries providing the labour and rich countries providing the capital .
Surely Europe should act as a safeguard , maintaining a certain equilibrium between increased profitability and social welfare ?
We must not forget that it is human resources which make a company function at its base and guarantee it good results .
Finally , allow me to remind you that the third letter of the EDD Group to which I belong stands for ' difference ' .
Europe has a duty to make its voice heard as an alternative to savage restructuring for profit at all costs . Without doubt , the voice of difference in this monotonous flood of restructuring .
I , like all Members present , am saddened by this loss of jobs .
Equally , I am saddened by the announcement made by Goodyear that has prompted this resolution .
But I doubt very much indeed whether a European works council would have been able to change this company ' s decision .
This House is very good at producing resolutions and legislation and we sometimes , in this institution , forget that Europe cannot survive alone .
We need multinational companies to base their businesses within our continent .
In our last plenary part-session in Brussels we voted on the end-of-life vehicles directive and managed to make the legislation retrospective , adding huge costs for the European motor manufacturers that they could not have predicted .
Two days later , Toyota , which employs several thousand people in my region , stated that this directive would not only increase the cost of cars but could well also mean redundancies in their Derbyshire plant .
We MEPs speak often about SMEs and have now come up with a unique way of creating them .
Take a large successful business , add European regulations , and within months you have created a small one .
Perhaps before we criticise anybody outside this place we should take a good look at ourselves and what we do here .
Mr President , I will not use my speaking time by going into the individual cases debated here today .
In this respect , I share Mrs Plooij-Van Gorsel ' s view that we cannot talk about these in detail .
But maybe next time , we ought to discuss CORUS , the merger which has now taken place between our Nederlandse Hoogovens and British Steel .
I would like to place this discussion in a somewhat wider context and examine the link between policy in the field of company mergers within the European Union and policy in other fields .
I would also like to advocate coherence in the Commission ' s policy from these different vantage points , unlike my predecessor , who holds the belief that there is no need for rules .
We need to gain an insight into what companies are like now .
At present , we are witnessing a number of large mergers between companies which originate in an Anglo-Saxon tradition and companies with a Rhineland tradition .
As such , I would like to ask these various Commission directorates and these various Commissioners to provide a wider vision regarding corporate governments .
I think that it would also fit in well with the plans which have been presented over the past couple of days on good government in Europe , as company policy forms part of this .
The closure means the direct or indirect loss of more than a thousand jobs and hundreds of families being abandoned to insecurity and sudden poverty .
The European Union , in all of its aspects , must use all of its powers to resolve this and other disputes .
Mr President , earlier this week President Prodi announced that one of the Commission ' s strategic objectives for the next five years would be to aim for full employment .
He acknowledged that 15 million Europeans are currently looking for work and that unemployment is the main source of poverty and social exclusion .
What is more , the Portuguese Presidency sees the fight against unemployment as top priority .
Yet , all too often these political priorities are invisible in everyday policies .
The Commission ' s decision to allow the ABB-Alsthom merger to go ahead is a case in point .
The new company has announced its intention to initiate a restructuring plan with the aim of making savings .
This global restructuring plan could lead to the loss of up to 12 000 jobs .
The company ' s failure to inform the works council about the proposals for the merger is particularly worrying .
It is especially important in the case of large international companies where decisions are taken far from the employee .
Point 17 of the Community Charter of Fundamental Social Rights of Workers stresses the need for consultation , adding that this shall apply especially in companies having establishments in two or more Member States .
I do not think it is simply a matter of a Community charter .
EU legislation on this issue could not be clearer .
The Commission would do well in this sort of situation to make its decisions not simply on the basis of whether a merger will distort competition but also on the basis of the social and economic consequences .
We need more joined-up policy making on these issues .
What we also need urgently is an impact assessment study on the effect of merger in every situation .
This is the only way of respecting Article 127 of the Treaty .
I have received seven motions for resolution tabled pursuant to Rule 37 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure .
That concludes the debate .
The vote will be taken later this evening .
The sitting was suspended at 3.50 p.m. and resumed at 4.05 p.m.
TOPICAL AND URGENT DEBATE
The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance .
Racist and xenophobic incidents in El Ejido ( Spain )
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions :
B5-0159 / 2000 by Mr Gasliba i Bhm and Mr Snchez Garca , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on racist and xenophobic incidents in El Ejido ( Spain ) ;
B5-0162 / 2000 by Mrs Dez Gonzlez and others , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the outbursts of racism and xenophobia in El Ejido ( Spain ) ;
B5-0169 / 2000 by Mr Puerta and others , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , on outbursts of xenophobia in El Ejido ( Spain ) ;
B5-0175 / 2000 by Mr Bautista Ojeda and others , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on xenophobia-related incidents in El Ejido ( Spain ) .
Mr President , Commissioner , whenever a serious social problem occurs , it always has a political basis .
This is true of the disgraceful events which have recently occurred in El Ejido .
The proof of this lies in the fact that the groups in this House have reacted and tabled several motions for resolutions .
We all regret the deaths which have occurred and the violent and disproportionate reactions against the immigrant workers .
We all , I believe , agree in our condemnation of the xenophobia and racism which was apparent in certain actions .
These events certainly have their origin in , among other factors , the absence of a clear immigration policy allowing the affected communities to live together respectfully and peacefully .
We hope that the events in El Ejido will serve as a lesson to everyone and will not be repeated .
Yet it is not enough to regret the situation .
We do not want Africa to become our cross , in fact quite the contrary .
We must therefore act .
I should like to highlight certain measures which we are trying to introduce in another European region affected by immigration - the Canary Islands .
Firstly we are creating a network of reception centres for minors .
Secondly we are conducting a programme of social integration .
Thirdly we are carrying out education programmes on tolerance and respect .
Finally we are producing a census of immigrants .
Mr President , last week , in the Andalusian town of El Ejido , we saw scenes which were inappropriate to the European Union in the year 2000 .
This was acknowledged by the Commission President , Romano Prodi , on 9 February when he confirmed that what had occurred in El Ejido went against the very principles of the European Union .
These events have caused us great pain and shame and have awoken our fears given the extreme racism , xenophobia and intolerance demonstrated .
It is incomprehensible that ways of coexisting and ensuring mutual respect cannot be found between two communities which are mutually beneficial .
We are all immigrants .
For generations human beings have not always remained within the borders of one nation state but have constantly migrated .
Geographical mobility is not an invention of the twentieth century and neither are its economic and work-related causes .
We are all immigrants , if not ourselves personally , then through one of our relations or ancestors .
However , instead of producing these events which we are condemning , migration must generate social , cultural and economic enrichment .
Secondly , all the authorities must act immediately . Coordination between them is the key to combating this type of xenophobia and racism .
These authorities must also help to achieve difficult agreements between the parties involved and must not hinder these , as has happened with the mayor in question .
Mr President , initially our Group did not fully understand the need to table this motion for a resolution on events which seemed to be a local phenomenon .
However , the incidents in El Ejido are a symptom of a phenomenon which is present throughout Europe and which deserves our full attention .
This is why what seemed to be a local and isolated phenomenon in El Ejido is actually a worrying symptom which is coinciding with the emergence of parties like Haider ' s .
In this respect we must not forget that the original victim ' s attacker was suffering from a mental illness for which he had been inadequately treated .
The current difficulties must also be taken into account so that this town can adopt the necessary measures , as indicated previously .
Mr President , Commissioner , Andalusia is one of the most tolerant and multiracial regions of the European Union .
Anyone , whether European or not , who lives and works in Andalusia , is an Andalusian and deserves our consideration and respect .
The EU can and must speak out . For you , the south is Andalusia but for us Andalusians it is Africa .
Mr President , Commissioner , I speak from experience acquired during many visits to El Ejido over the years .
I was therefore aware how the situation was developing .
In El Ejido there is a serious social problem , problems of integration and employment and also a grave problem of public safety which acted as the detonator .
These events have also acted as a wake-up call to our consciences .
Those responsible for what happened in El Ejido are a minority who set out to satisfy their desire for vengeance on the immigrants . We must bear in mind that vengeance is not a solution .
Mr President , this resolution expresses solidarity with the democratic forces in Spain fighting for human rights .
All the Spanish democrats wounded by what is happening in their country have our full and complete support .
It was not only immigrants who were the victims of atrocities ; the democratic system in Spain has been held up to ridicule , despite having demonstrated its tremendous capacity to evolve over the last 20 years .
Employers would be lost without immigrants .
Working conditions are so hard and so deplorable that no Spaniard will accept them .
What happened at El Ejido is the result of inadmissible racist and xenophobic practices in Europe today .
For four days , the immigrants were collectively hounded .
Women and children were beaten .
Fleeing from all quarters , hundreds of immigrants took refuge on a hill on the outskirts of the town .
We are right to blacklist Haider ' s Austria ; but we cannot allow little local Haiders to practice policies of racial exclusion and merciless economic domination .
What happened in Spain could happen in any country in the Union if we are not careful .
We all have a duty to put our own house in order .
It would be to our credit were the European Parliament to roundly condemn these events and support all proposals tabled in order to ensure that the rights of immigrants in Spain and throughout the Union are respected .
Mr President , acts of racist and xenophobic violence are taking hold at the heart of Europe .
Everywhere this violence is exacerbated by the spread of extremist movements .
We must take practical steps today to put an end to all attacks of a physical nature .
No European society can truly flourish when it harbours the risk of seeing one section of its population fall prey to the hatred of the other .
Without wishing to lump everything together hysterically , because each period is different , we have failed to learn the lessons of history .
That is my conclusion today .
Because this witch hunt which broke out in the province of Almera should have been foreseen .
We also know that many of them only earn EUR 30 a month , while their fellow European citizens can earn three times that .
This precarious wage-earning position weakens these immigrants and their families and makes them vulnerable .
The irresponsibility of certain elected representatives and the barely disguised complicity of the authorities have contributed to this racist explosion .
We need to educate our children on these matters and finally have the courage to recognise that we will need to be prepared to accept many more immigrants in years to come .
It just remains for me to urge you all to attend the demonstration on Saturday .
We must take to the streets of Europe to protest against these alliances with extremists which are a disgrace to Europe and which lead our youth astray .
Mr President , since the signature of the Treaty of Amsterdam , the European Union has had responsibility for combating racism and xenophobia .
Two types of measure are required for this purpose . The first should seek the integration of people of non-European origin and the other should aim to organise immigration .
A more vigorous integration policy should aim at granting them rights and obligations comparable to those of EU citizens ' .
This is totally contrary to what we have seen and found recently in El Ejido where there are irregularities , labour exploitation and indecent living conditions , which have been condemned in the past .
I have less hope about the development of an effective and fair European policy in accordance with the statement made by the Council on immigration .
Yet we do not know whether this has been accepted by the governments . Outside the Community arena , some governments are making efforts to renew their immigration policies .
This is occurring in my country , despite the government , the party in power being the only one which does not like the new law on aliens .
The objective of combating racism and xenophobia , explained in the Treaties , should be the objective of all European institutions and politicians .
On 28 February 1998 the European political parties , including the Spanish Popular Party , signed the Charter of European Political Parties for a Non-Racist Society .
This requires coherent behaviour , yet local leaders of the Popular Party are throwing more fuel on the raging fire and boycotting the attempts of other institutions to put this out .
The party to which the Mayor of El Ejido belongs should , according to the commitments signed in this Charter , act forcefully .
It is only , as stated by Mr Hernndez Mollar , through unity , responsibility and firmness that El Ejido , Spain and Europe will be able to overcome these events of which we are deeply ashamed .
Mr President , one cannot but feel disgust and indignation at the scenes of lynching , no less , of Moroccan day labourers which took place in El Ejido .
We do not the extent to which far-right commandos were to blame and how far the common people stupid enough to follow these commandos were to blame .
We wish to assure these Moroccan workers that they have our full support - as if being exploited by unscrupulous employers were not enough , they have to suffer this type of aggression .
And if the aggressors include working-class people , all we can say to them is that , in acting in this way , they are digging their own graves .
In waging war against people who are as poor as they are , they are only doing their own exploiters a favour and preparing a future of oppression for themselves .
The lynch mob and their extreme right-wing mentors are the mortal enemies not only of the workers , but of society as a whole .
. I would like to begin by congratulating the honourable Member on the way in which he introduced this extremely important debate .
I want to make it clear at the outset that the Commission unreservedly condemns the dreadful acts of violence at El Ejido against the immigrant workers of the region .
We express our support for the families and friends of the victims .
President Prodi and Commissioner Diamantopoulou have both issued separate statements .
Naturally I completely endorse what they have said .
It was especially moving to hear the remarks from Members of Parliament who come from the region about what has happened , uncharacteristically , in a part of Spain that I know reasonably well .
Racist and xenophobic acts are wholly unacceptable within our Community , wherever they take place .
They fly in the face of the very principles on which - as Mr Havel said yesterday - the European Union was founded : principles of liberty , democracy and respect for human rights .
The European Union has already laid the basis for Community legislation on combating discrimination on the grounds of race .
This proposal is under examination by the Council and the European Parliament .
The Commission hopes very much that this stage will soon be complete .
The European Council also considered it important to step up the prevention of illegal immigration .
Its objective here is to secure the rights of victims of criminal networks organising illegal immigration , with particular reference to the rights of women and children .
Those who organise illegal immigration should be prosecuted with the utmost vigour .
The word that is used about them in Chinese society is ' snake-heads ' .
It seems to me a fitting description of them .
Let me also draw attention to the work on drawing up a European Union charter on fundamental rights , which has now reached the drafting stage .
Those rights are , by definition , universal .
The charter will extend to third country nationals in Member States even though certain rights will be reserved to nationals of Member States of the Union .
The El Ejido incidents were shocking , as several Members have said in their speeches .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The joint debate is closed .
The vote will take place at 6 p.m.
Human rights
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions :
Violence between ethnic groups in Mitrovica and Albanian prisoners in Serbia , notably the plight of Mrs Flora Brovina
B5-0140 / 2000 by Mr Dupuis and others , on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members - mixed group , on the situation in Kosovo ;
B5-0141 / 2000 by Mr Schori and others , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the situation in Kosovo ;
B5-0150 / 2000 by Mr Oostlander and others , on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on Kosovo ;
B5-0170 / 2000 by Mrs Morgantini and others , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , on the situation in Kosovo and the Albanian political prisoners in Serbia ;
B5-0176 / 2000 by Mr Cohn-Bendit and others , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the situation in Kosovo and the Albanian political prisoners in Serbia ;
Press freedom in Angola
B5-0148 / 2000 by Mr Dupuis and others , on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members - mixed group , on press freedom in Angola ;
B5-0151 / 2000 by Mr Cunha and others , on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on freedom of expression in Angola ;
B5-0160 / 2000 by Mrs Malmstrm , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on freedom of expression in Angola ;
B5-0165 / 2000 by Mr Schori , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on freedom of expression , independence of the media and due process in Angola ;
B5-0166 / 2000 by Mr Queir , on behalf of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group , on Angola ;
B5-0178 / 2000 by Mrs Maes and others , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on press freedom in Angola ;
Native Americans in the US - Dineh
B5-0157 / 2000 by Mr Sterckx , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the rights of the Dineh people , Big Mountain , Arizona , USA ;
B5-0163 / 2000 by Mrs Van Brempt , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the rights of the Dineh people , Big Mountain , Arizona , USA ;
B5-0171 / 2000 by Mr Cossutta and Mr Vinci , on behalf of the GUE / NGL Group , on the rights of the Dineh people , USA ;
B5-0174 / 2000 by Mrs Srensen , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the rights of the Dineh people , Big Mountain , Arizona , USA ;
Russian journalist Andrey Babitsky
B5-0153 / 2000 by Mr Oostlander and Mr Posselt , on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on the case of the Russian journalist Andrey Babitsky ;
B5-0155 / 2000 by Mr Trentin and others , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on Russian journalist Andrey Babitsky ;
B5-0156 / 2000 by Mr Maaten , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the fate of a Russian journalist Andrey Babitsky in Chechnya ;
B5-0172 / 2000 by Mr Vinci and Mrs Fraisse , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , on the journalist Andrey Babitsky ;
B5-0177 / 2000 by Mrs Schroedter and others , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the case of Andrey Babitsky and violation of human rights in Chechnya ;
B5-0161 / 2000 by Mr Maaten and Mr Wiebenga , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the need for an international trial of the Khmer Rouge .
Mr President , before we start the debate on Kosovo or Mitrovica , I must inform you that a nasty sense of unease has come over me .
Indeed , it is not the first time that we will be debating Kosovo here .
We have adopted resolutions in the past but they usually are nothing but a warning shot , as nothing is actually done with them .
I very much appreciate it that the Commission always attends . I certainly appreciate the fact that Commissioner Patten is present , given his powers .
But I - and many Members with me - also have to note that the Council is consistently absent from this debate .
We need to cooperate with the Council too .
I see that a diplomat from the Council is present who is diligently taking notes and who will then report to the Council but , for the rest , nothing will get done .
I would insist on changing our procedures and on the fact that the Council should be present during the topical debate , so that we can enter into direct consultation with the Council .
I think we should give this some thought .
I would request you to pass this complaint on to the Bureau of Parliament .
Thank you , Mr Staes .
We note your concern and will pass this on through the appropriate channels .
Violence between ethnic groups in Mitrovica and Albanian prisoners in Serbia , notably the plight of Mrs Flora Brovina
Mr President , Commissioner , we have not signed this compromise motion for a resolution for two reasons .
First , because Mr Sakellariou , who is known for his openness and tolerance and whom I shall not quote , vehemently vetoed it in a bid to set himself up as your moral defender .
I have no doubt , and I am sure that you have no doubt , that this is a major new contribution on his part to the fight against racism and intolerance .
The other reason is that this text does not , unfortunately , go very far .
I think that it manages , through a series of clever devices , to carefully avoid addressing the central issue , i.e. the final status of Kosovo .
I doubt that any of you still believe that Kosovo can one day become part of Yugoslavia .
I also doubt that any of you can believe that Milosevic could resist for very long if the international community eventually resolved the question of the final status of Kosovo .
Finally , I do not think that any of you believe that the present status quo will bring minimum stability and hence minimum development to Kosovo .
I also noted a mistake in the compromise motion for a resolution , which you no doubt overlooked .
You condemn the first direct attack on the KFOR troops .
I note that the Union is preparing to lift certain sanctions and that we have not seen even one of these prisoners released in exchange .
Why not ?
Mr President , what is happening in Mitrovica in Kosovo is appalling and reprehensible .
Violence begets violence , and revenge begets revenge .
The police forces which have been sent out do not have the manpower to stop what is going on .
The Chief Commissioner of Police , Svend Frederiksen , has expressed his desperation at the fact that he constantly has to make do with less than half the manpower which was agreed .
He has fewer than 2 000 officers , and it was agreed that there should be nearly 5 000 .
The police force should be large enough for it to be a visible presence , so that people can believe that it is in a position to stop atrocities .
It should also be large enough to be able to clear up crimes and punish those who are guilty of them . Otherwise , there is a danger of people taking the law into their own hands .
It is therefore also important that local officers should be trained , and the idea was , in fact , that 2 000 to 3 000 officers should be trained .
However , there are still fewer than 200 trained police officers to contribute to clearing up crime .
A year ago , we did of course see what happens when agreements and resolutions which have been made are not followed up .
I was in Kosovo on 27 October 1998 when the Serbs withdrew .
The agreement was that 1 800 OSCE observers should arrive to guarantee the peace .
After a month , however , there was still only a handful of observers .
By Christmas , there were perhaps 100 and , by the spring , still only a fraction of the force it had been agreed should come was , in fact , in place .
Atrocities were not even being recorded .
Then the war came , and the observers were withdrawn .
I would therefore ask the Commissioner : can you not in fact do anything to stop us repeating our follies here in Europe ?
Can you not guarantee increasing the police presence to 5 000 officers and training local officers , who would naturally find it easier to clear up crimes than would officers from abroad ?
I might also ask : when do you anticipate that they will be in place ?
And when is more responsibility to be transferred to local democratic authorities ?
I mention this last issue because it is the solution we should be embracing as quickly as possible if peace is to have any chance at all .
But NATO ' s decision for military intervention and the KLA ' s support for the armed forces had a devastating effect and have reduced Kosovo to a colony , as well as destroying civil infrastructures in Serbia .
In this sense , I am in agreement with Mr Sakellariou ' s proposals .
Flora defended herself , and asked Serbs and Albanians to shake hands .
Flora Brovina ' s husband is the guest of Serbian women in Belgrade .
This is a sign of hope , the hope that it possible to act differently even in Serbia .
I believe that the European Union must do likewise .
The embargo on Serbia must be lifted and Serbia must , in turn , release its political prisoners .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to fully endorse Mrs Pack ' s very emotionally-charged contribution .
What she has said here is completely justified .
There is not one truth in Kosovo , there are several .
I refuse to accept that we can now talk about a genocide in reverse - that is bending the truth .
I completely concur with the draft resolution which is before us .
We condemn all violence over there and that is what we need to do , but we cannot talk about genocide in reverse .
Needless to say , the situation in Mitrovica is very dangerous and we all know why .
There are also important economic interests at stake and the whole tragedy surrounding the Trepca mines also plays its part .
We have already talked about the fate of the political prisoners .
There is a great deal of pain , a lot of suffering in Kosovo .
The people are holding demonstrations , they are sending us e-mails .
They ask us where their children are , their sons .
We need to be able to go back with a proper answer .
The case of Flora Brovina is just one of many .
We are right to include this in the draft resolution , but there are hundreds , even thousands of Flora Brovinas out there .
I would ask the Commission and the absent Council at long last to do something for these political prisoners .
The fact that they are locked up in Serbia also fuels the unrest and violence in Kosovo .
This request is fully in line with the vision held by the Special Representative of the UN in Kosovo , Mr Bernard Kouchner .
In order to fulfil his mission to restore and maintain public order in Kosovo , he needs , by his own reckoning , at least 6 000 foreign police officers .
The UN , however , have pledged to dispatch a police force of 4 800 .
To date , however , Mr Kouchner only has about 2 000 police troops at his disposal . Moreover , half of this group is from the United States and Germany .
It is logical that the Special Representative of the UN in Kosovo is extremely dissatisfied with this situation , especially in the light of the endemic ethnic violence in the region .
What is disconcerting , however , is Mr Kouchner ' s sharp criticism levelled at the French Government these days .
Paris is leaving its fellow-countryman completely in the cold with a handful of policemen , not more than 37 , in the crisis region .
For this hardly honourable position , Mr Kouchner blames none other than the Minister for Home Affairs , Mr Chevnement .
According to Mr Kouchner , the Minister is said to have hindered the efforts of the French police officials on ideological grounds .
I would ask the Council and the Commission to look into these serious allegations carefully and inform the European Parliament of the outcome .
Press freedom in Angola
Mr President , I do not intend to repeat the premise put forward earlier for fear of being accused of improper publicity .
On the question of Angola , I think that we would achieve an initial result if we had a resolution at long last .
It would be the first in a long time .
So I welcome it as such .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the European Parliament has rightly led the way in promoting human rights in the European Union .
Clearly , governments are often more sensitive to the interests of realpolitik and to commercial , geostrategic or economic interests .
A free press and informed public opinion are the heart and soul of a democracy .
There can be no democracy without freedom of information and without free and informed public opinion .
Mr President , how much longer can we continue our cooperation with Angola ?
Human rights are being violated consistently and have been for a long period of time , not only by UNITA , but also by the government itself .
The legal proceedings against the journalists fly in the face of every legal principle .
The Angolan Government must immediately authorise a substantial UN presence which can mediate and can report on human rights .
Additionally , European observers will need to be admitted to the trials against the journalists .
Europe , as a major donor , has so far remained too passive with regard to Angola .
If the Angolan Government continues to refuse to cooperate , measures will need to be taken .
Without national reconciliation , reconciliation with Europe is not possible .
This being the case , Angola will unfortunately remain a very rough diamond .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I fully support the motion for a resolution being discussed by this House .
However , this motion is inadequate as it actually starts from the principle that Angola enjoys rule of law and is only imposing certain restrictions on journalists and restraining them .
Yet this is not the situation .
Angola does not enjoy rule of law . It is a repressive dictatorship .
It is at war , and a bloody war at that , which is dragging on and on .
The prevalent theory that the enemy must be crushed and physically eliminated to achieve peace is not one which we can accept .
The repeated appeals made by the Angolan church and , for example , by Mr Mandela and Mr Mbeki , for new negotiations to try and achieve peace must be supported by this House .
As another Member said , we must have a general debate on Angola and not just on the situation of certain journalists suffering repression in this country .
For example , I have today received information directly from Rafael Marques , whose situation we are discussing , according to which two correspondents from Portuguese television have been imprisoned in Angola .
These cases keep occurring .
Yet the worst part is that there is no way out of the situation in Angola .
The silence of the major powers and our own silence are questionable and are benefiting a regime of corruption , violence and war .
I must draw attention to the fact that the war in Angola is spreading to other parts of Africa .
The first is the MPLA , which controls the oil profits . The second is the armed band of Mr Savimbi , which controls the diamond profits .
This war must be stopped .
The authority of this House could play an important part if we were to have a major debate on the Angolan situation and also on the whole of southern Africa .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the motion for a resolution before us today is important because of its subject and the desire to protect the rule of law and press freedom .
This situation , as in neighbouring former Zaire , is like a festering wound in which it is not clear who is infecting whom .
This was appropriately described a few weeks ago as the First World War of Africa , given the involvement of certain countries in others .
This is a major issue because the Angolan State and authorities must assume their responsibilities . The international community and the European Union must spell this out very clearly .
These journalists are professionals who are trying to inform the public in their country and denounce the corruption existing in this regime , for which they are being persecuted .
It is clear that such a scenario will never allow peace to be established in Angola .
We have experienced this in our own national and European history . People can only enjoy lasting peace if they are living in a free and pluralist society where everyone is mutually tolerant .
The cause of these journalists is therefore one which we must embrace , although bearing in mind that the problem goes much wider and much deeper and is much more terrible .
Like a previous speaker , I also fully support the appeals which have been made .
We must , some time soon , find the courage to tackle the whole Angolan problem more broadly and more vigorously .
The people of Angola deserve better .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , it seems as if the world is turned upside down .
Journalists are sent to prison for simply speaking the truth , whilst soldiers who are supposedly fighting each other exchange smuggled goods in the bar in the evening .
This is Angola ' s reality .
We are now expressing our horror concerning this war .
Three million victims , two million driven from their homes within the country ' s borders , hundreds of thousands driven away across its borders , including women and children .
This is a war which transcends its borders . It is not just UNITA which is to blame .
The government too is responsible for this continuing violence . This is why we insist that the journalists - more than 20 were imprisoned last year - keep speaking their minds .
We would , at the same time , like to insist on other things .
We want the UN embargo , which is supposed to prevent a large proportion of arms and ammunition from being flown across to UNITA airports , to stop .
But what do these sanctions mean ?
It is the western world itself which is partly to blame .
It is we , our own people , who keep the war going over there .
The so-called civilised world should hang its head in shame .
Mr President , we are partly to blame for this war .
We should stop financing this regime and we should certainly stop supplying arms for the war .
Mr President , the facts are well-known .
On 24 December , the Angolan court sentenced a correspondent of the Portuguese paper , Expresso , to a year ' s imprisonment and a fine of USD 20 000 .
The journalist had brought to light a corruption scandal in the President ' s cabinet .
The trial took place behind closed doors and the defendant was only allowed one witness .
Another journalist was threatened with his life during a parliamentary debate last month by a member of parliament of the MPLA government party .
These are only two examples of a trend in Angola to silence any government critics .
Over the past year , more than twenty journalists have been arrested for alleged slander or criminal offences against state security .
Their only crime was to criticise what human rights organisations have been denouncing all along , namely the large-scale corruption and disappearance of hundreds of millions of dollars , paid by the oil companies to the Angolan Government .
Even the British Minister , Peter Hain , conceded this recently .
We should ensure that the oil revenue is not used merely to finance the war or to line the pockets of prominent members of government , he told President Dos Santos last month .
But , at the same time , we note that Great Britain and also Portugal are continuing to channel military aid to the government .
There is indeed a great deal of hypocrisy regarding Angola .
On the basis of a report , the human rights organisation Global Witness concluded that the western world is turning a blind eye to the activities of Dos Santos because it is fishing for lucrative oil contracts .
I would like to challenge Portugal to deliver proof to the contrary , by making commercial interests subservient to human rights , to which so much lip service is being paid .
In my opinion , Angola is a test case .
We should , at any rate , judge the Portuguese Presidency on its actions and not on its words .
Native Americans in the US - Dineh
This is about the repression of a minority which unfortunately goes back a long time .
It is up to the European Parliament to protect vulnerable people .
So we need to do this .
This is also about respecting a culture , a language , a way of life and a people ' s religion , a vulnerable culture which has nearly disappeared .
It is important to point this out .
We have just approved the water directive here in Parliament .
The forced relocation scheme must be stopped unconditionally .
People should no longer be forced to move .
Over the past 25 years , no less than 25 000 people have been forced to move and this must stop .
If people need to move at all , they need to be given a viable alternative .
This is not the case here .
The area where the people in question are now being taken - and this is also the reason for this resolution - is a polluted area which is economically not suitable .
This is why I think that we as European Parliament need to ask the American authorities in any case to suspend the relocation scheme under discussion and , if necessary , abandon the scheme altogether .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , this is my maiden speech and I am delivering it with a great deal of pleasure and conviction as the topic is human rights .
We need to continue to stand up for these rights , especially in our own Member States and societies , but also elsewhere .
As Mr Sterckx said , we certainly need to do this vis--vis the United States which , after all , is close to us in terms of democratic values .
The treatment of the Native Americans in many respects flies in the face of the most fundamental human rights .
The account of the Dineh Indians is telling .
The area in Arizona which is to be the New Land for the Dineh Indians was hit in 1979 by the worst nuclear disaster in US history .
It is now the intention to send the last 4 000 Dineh Indians to this land .
The fight of these Indians is being backed by more than 250 NGOs and , thanks to the efforts of the Belgian ' Mother Earth ' organisation , we are being kept informed of this situation .
This too is characteristic of American society , which hears little about it .
They get het up about wars and genocide on other continents , but wrongly keep quiet about the genocide taking place in their own country .
Today , the Dineh Indians are facing their final fight for their right to land , for their right to dignity and , above all , for their right to their way of life .
There are few of them left and they are up against a very powerful , economic adversary .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I endorse the many comments which have been made by the previous speakers , but I would like to emphasise a few things .
The Dineh people belong to the North-American Navajo Indians .
They are facing expulsion and have been fighting a battle of survival for dozens of years .
They have been living in harrowing living conditions for years .
The deprived conditions in which they are living at the moment is forcing them to compromise against their better judgement under the financial and economic pressure exercised by the coal industries .
The Relocation Act , which was introduced in 1974 and aims to re-distribute the land of the Navajo reservation , authorised the relocation of the peoples .
This relocation is , of course , unacceptable because human rights are being violated in economic , social and cultural terms .
The Relocation Act was pushed through in Congress by a group representing the coal mining industry .
Congress never questioned where the people living in the area would have to move to or how relocation would impact on their lives .
The population was not allowed any input .
This resembles a kind of trade in human beings .
The relocation scheme was implemented and the Dineh people were moved to an area contaminated by uranium .
It is high time we respected the rights of the Indians .
This is why we ask you to vote for this resolution : we in Europe should not be intimidated by American interests which are being pushed by financial , religious and industrial groups .
So let us contact the United States now !
Mr President , in terms of human rights , there is of course a great deal amiss in Chechnya .
We have received reports from human rights organisations saying that Russian soldiers killed and apparently even executed citizens - I am talking about old men and women - in Grozny .
Citizens are believed to have been burnt alive in air-raid shelters .
We insist that these violations of human rights are investigated .
Despite the pledges made , violations in , for example , Alfanyurt have still not been investigated .
The fate of Andrey Babitsky , the correspondent in Grozny of Radio Liberty , who was arrested by Russian troops , is a dramatic example of Russian policy .
It contravenes Article 3 of the Geneva Convention of 1949 and is a flagrant violation of the freedom of the press .
We want information from the Russian authorities as to Mr Babitsky ' s whereabouts and his state of health .
Mr President , a journalist is on a fact-finding mission and this calls for freedom .
Yet he is taken hostage and treated as a prisoner of war .
The war in Chechnya , like any war , is a trail of horrors .
The filtration camps are camps in which torture , rape and violations are perpetrated : we know that now .
And just what is Mr CFSP doing ?
What are we doing about it ?
I beg you to intervene .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the tragic case of the courageous Russian journalist Andrey Babitsky illustrates once again the depth of the democratic crisis into which Russia has sunk .
The entire Federation is allowing itself to be taken in by the war propaganda .
A warlord has become President and he has even been described as a reformer in some western quarters .
Journalists , on the other hand , who are simply going about their work in Russia , i.e. endeavouring to produce reports which are as objective as possible , are being treated like criminals .
The Russian Government appears to have lost its fundamental understanding of what democracy is about and truth appears to have become a threat in its eyes .
I can only reiterate my appeal to the Council and the Commission to stick to the rules .
It is simply not possible for a country to have normal economic relations with the EU if it does not recognise democratic principles .
Mr President , what sort of government hands over one of its own citizens to people whom it itself describes as ' terrorists ' and ' bandits ' ?
Without any hesitation , the Russian Minister for Internal Affairs , Vladimir Rushailo , earlier this week confirmed the answer to this revealing question .
The victim of this exchange is said to be the 35-year-old war correspondent of Radio Free Europe / Radio Liberty , Andrey Babitsky .
I am using the phrase ' is said to be ' on purpose , because official Chechen sources are still denying that they would have exchanged Mr Babitsky for a number of Russian prisoners of war .
In the meantime , the highest Russian authorities are casting a veil of secrecy over the mysterious disappearance of this courageous journalist .
For example , Acting President Vladimir Putin gave an assurance last Monday that he had ordered the country ' s security services to bring the missing reporter back to Moscow safely .
Russia ' s new strong man , however , added a rather puzzling comment to this welcome declaration : ' As far as I am aware , Mr Babitsky already feels free . '
This distressing ambiguity on the part of the Kremlin is not really surprising .
The facts are clear .
Andrey Babitsky was an unwanted busybody in Mr Putin ' s ' anti-terrorist ' operation in Chechnya .
Hence his disappearance of over one month .
In any case , the Babitsky affair warrants one conclusion : the leaders in Moscow cannot possibly maintain that hostage-taking and trading in defenceless citizens is a specifically Chechen crime .
This resolution is already the fourth in a row within a short space of time in connection with the Chechen tragedy .
Nor is it a mere luxury . Indeed , it is in line with some thirty Russian media bodies which yesterday distributed a special issue on Andrey Babitsky free of charge .
Cambodia
I do not think that reconciliation is possible after such murderous tragedies , unless those responsible for starting them are brought to trial and sentenced .
Nor do I think that the people who were their victims can give them a fair trial .
I became convinced of this in Sarajevo when I had to negotiate the periodic exchanges of prisoners which accompanied each successive ceasefire agreement , none of which unfortunately lasted , between the parties to the conflict .
Every time , just as the exchange was about to take place , we found men missing from the meticulously drawn up lists .
Every time , when we asked why , the reply was the same , ' We cannot release him : he is a war criminal ' .
In the emotion , pain and fury of the agreements , it was impossible to break the vicious circle of blood and vengeance .
I expect Ta Mok and his main lieutenants to be tried and sentenced by the establishment of a tribunal whose impartiality is guaranteed by the United Nations .
This will be the only way for the Cambodians to pardon those who simply followed them and to achieve lasting peace .
Mr President , it became known this week that two prominent Cambodian opposition papers have been threatened with closure because they are reported to have insulted the king and prime minister .
These papers actively support the opposition politician , Mr Sam Rengie .
Legal proceedings have been initiated against Sam Rengie himself in order to lift his parliamentary immunity so that he can be brought to trial for treason .
In his millennium speech , he dared to raise the fact that it should become clear what the procedure would be for appointing the successor to King Sihanouk in the event of his death .
In March of last year , a member of Sam Rengie ' s party was killed by a group of men in military uniform in the province of Kandal .
In September , two members of the party were arrested because they were reported to have been involved in a rocket attack on the prime minister .
This is notably the only party in Cambodia which has no military arm .
In October , a member of parliament belonging to the same party was abducted by uniformed men and not released until the ransom was paid .
The pattern of intimidation is clear .
Even more serious is the government ' s refusal to bring the leaders of the Khmer Rouge before an international tribunal .
It is true , the civil war in Cambodia is over and political tension has eased .
Living examples of this have been the Pinochet-Ugarten case , Kosovo and , in milder form in our own Union , the debate surrounding the government decision in Austria .
This is what is at stake now in Cambodia unless the leaders of the previous oppressive regime are bought to justice .
At the same time , the struggle against impunity is under threat .
The situation should also remind us all that the ratification of the Treaty for an International Criminal Court has been shamefully slow .
.
Mr President , we had an extremely useful debate on human rights yesterday .
First of all , on Kosovo , the Commission fully shares the concerns expressed in these draft resolutions as regards general policy towards Kosovo , as regards the continuing ethnic violence and as regards the prisoners in Serb jails .
Our efforts in Kosovo , as elsewhere in the wider region , are directed at short and medium-term recovery and long-term stabilisation .
In particular we support the development of a free , democratic and multi-ethnic society .
Our assistance programmes in the fields of democratisation and human rights should continue to build confidence in general and , in particular , to try to build confidence between the various communities .
We have always condemned ethnic violence , no matter which ethnic group is the perpetrator or the victim .
We consider it is unacceptable against Serb and Roma minorities as it was against the Kosovar Albanians in the past .
We support the efforts of UNMIK , KFOR and the OSCE to establish a functioning civil administration and to ensure law and order .
In this regard we strongly support the High Representative ' s recent appeal to Member States to provide more police officers for the UN civil police mission in Kosovo .
It was a point raised by several speakers in the debate .
I hope it will underline the importance , when we address the development of a Common Foreign and Security Policy , of looking at the non-military aspects of that policy as well as the military aspects .
It is just as important to have headline goals for our policing and institution building as for a military capacity .
We continue to be very concerned about the many civilians who are presently held in Serb prisons .
I totally agree with the points put so passionately by the Mrs Pack , either before trial or following judgement .
The plight of Kosovar Albanians who have been missing since the end of the war is particularly distressing .
We call on everyone , within and outside Kosovo , to support these common aims , to support UNMIK and KFOR in their efforts to achieve them .
Turning briefly to Angola , we had again a number of knowledgeable speeches , especially from Mr Soares , with his unrivalled knowledge of the subject .
The Commission believes strongly that press freedom and free speech will be crucial for progress with peace and reconciliation in Angola .
It is a vital precondition for strengthening democratic institutions and civil society .
An area of special concern is the harassment of journalists , including temporary detention of members of the so-called independent press .
The European Union made a specific dmarche on press freedom to the Angolan Ministry of Justice in November last year .
We fully support the work of the UN through UNUA , given its specific responsibility to monitor the human rights situation in Angola .
We are also committed to the Security Council ' s sanctions against UNITA , including arms controls .
While maintaining emphasis on humanitarian needs , the Commission is preparing for a post-conflict phase in our financial support for Angola .
An essential element will be support for democracy and human rights , including specific initiatives to strengthen democratic institutions and civil society .
The European Union has condemned the use of anti-personnel landmines and we are supporting de-mining operations through an international NGO .
This is a subject which is not given sufficient attention .
On the question of the indigenous peoples in the US , I am sure that the resolution which was primarily addressed to the US authorities will have been noted by them .
The Commission shares the growing concern about the missing Russian journalist , Mr Babitsky and the conditions for the independent media in Chechnya more generally .
This issue comes on top of our deep worries about the plight of the civilian population in Chechnya , and I have heard Mr Posselt on this subject before .
There are alarming reports of human rights violations .
Of course , there has been disproportionate use of force in the present conflict .
The Commission delegation in Moscow participated in a European Union Troika dmarche on the eleventh of this month .
We await a proper response from the Russians .
In the meantime , the conclusions of the General Affairs Council earlier this week have confirmed the message which I have given today .
And we are ready to return to the issue at the EU-Russia Ministerial Troika in Lisbon on 2 March , if we need to do so .
Finally , on Cambodia and the Khmer Rouge : we strongly agree that senior Khmer Rouge leaders should be accountable for their crimes .
I totally agree with the arguments that were put forward by Mr Morillon .
We vigorously supported the Troika dmarche to Foreign Minister Hor Namhong on 4 February this year .
The European Union underlined its full support for the efforts of the United Nations on the need for a tribunal to prosecute former Khmer Rouge leaders .
At the same time , we welcome the continued dialogue between the two parties .
I am encouraged by the optimism of Kofi Annan , Secretary-General of the UN , on the chances of agreement on the proposed tribunal .
The Commission will continue to raise issues regarding the rule of law , democratic principles and human rights with Cambodian authorities through the EC-Cambodia Cooperation Agreement which entered into force on 1 November last year .
It has been useful to debate human rights twice in a couple of days .
I hope we have other opportunities , but I hope we will have fewer examples of their abuse in the years ahead .
Thank you very much Commissioner Patten .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place at 6.00 p.m.
Danube environmental disaster
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions :
B5-0164 / 2000 by Mr Leinen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ,
B5-0167 / 2000 by Mr Maaten and Mrs Thors on behalf of the Group of the European Democrat and Reform Party ,
B5-0168 / 2000 by Mr Oostlander and Mrs Grossette on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and the European Democrats ,
B5-0173 / 2000 by Mr Papayannakis and Mr Sjstedt on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left ,
B5-0179 / 2000 by Mrs Schroedter and others on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance
on the environmental disaster caused by cyanide leaking from a Romanian goldmine into the Lepos , Somes , Tisza and Danube Rivers .
Mr President , we debated the framework directive on water this week , and the disaster in Romania has demonstrated once again how very seriously we need to take the protection of water .
This disaster has raised a number of important issues which concern us as a European Union .
We therefore welcome Commissioner Wallstrm ' s brief visit , for it can contribute to this awareness .
After all , this is a candidate country we are talking about , and this disaster is in addition to the existing concern about whether all candidate countries will comply with the EU environmental rules in time .
The polluter ought to pay .
I wonder whether the European Union can recoup this kind of cost from the environmental cowboys who appear in the so-called ' Wild East ' , making use of the inadequate environmental legislation in place .
I would be in favour of its doing so .
Mr President , Commissioner , there has been one ecological disaster after another and , unfortunately , they are all similar .
Once again , there is cause for concern at the serious pollution affecting the fourth most important wetland in Europe .
The delta of the Danube is in danger .
As in Spain in April 1998 , as in Brittany and the Vende since last December , once again an exceptional natural site is under serious threat .
The European Parliament is constantly drawing attention in its resolutions to this sort of danger , which threatens our environment , upsets our ecosystem and again weakens our populations .
This new disaster raises the problem of the integration of the environmental acquis communautaire in candidate countries .
The authorities in these counties , which are still very frail from an environmental point of view , need to overcome numerous obstacles .
But , over and above that , it is the technologies and the means used to prevent and deal quickly and efficiently with this type of disaster which are being called into question .
I hope that our future partners will demonstrate greater responsibility .
The environment must be a priority area within the reunification of the European continent .
It must form the basis for our partners ' political will .
Implementing high environmental standards will not only allow important industrial and technological sectors to develop , it will also have social and economic benefits and , at the same time , public health standards will improve .
The efforts already being made need to be stepped up .
The European continent needs to demonstrate solidarity and responsibilities must be clearly defined on the basis of the ' polluter pays ' principle .
Mr President , when the Doana disaster occurred , the non-governmental organisation , the World Wide Fund for Nature , gave us a report on the number of reservoirs of this type in Europe .
The number is huge . They are an ecological time bomb and affect the drinking water supply , ecological wealth and economic future of surrounding areas .
I visited Doana after the spill and saw how agriculture , fishing and the lives of people in the surrounding area were enormously compromised .
I therefore believe that the European Union must , to start with , carry out an analysis of the situation of these reservoirs and compile a precise record of the number of these in Europe .
We must bring these reservoirs under Community law and the directives on waste and we must use the precautionary principle to ensure that this type of event does not happen again .
If we do not , we will be permanently endangering the ecological wealth of our continent .
It is incomprehensible that an accident of this kind could have happened at all today .
Is a substance as poisonous as cyanide really to be used in the mining industry and in the production of metals ?
The answer , of course , is an emphatic no .
There must be no more manufacture or use of cyanide .
I assume , therefore , that the EU will take the initiative and see to it that there is a total , worldwide ban on the manufacture and use of that substance .
It has already been banned in most EU countries for a long time now .
That an accident like this can happen at all is therefore an extremely shameful state of affairs .
I have been informed that the Commissioner for the Environment , Margot Wallstrm , has travelled from Strasbourg to Romania in order to see for herself , on the spot , what has happened .
It also sheds light upon the low level of environmental requirements in some of the applicant States .
We must demand that there should be no exceptions which could jeopardise people ' s health and the ecosystems .
For example , the overflow from the decanting basins at the gold mines in Salsigne , in France , have caused tremendous pollution and are a huge economic disaster even today .
We know full well that pollution and restoration costs run into billions .
Who is going to pay ?
Which is why the environmental aspect , which is becoming a matter of urgency , must be taken into account in all development projects at all costs .
I am thinking in particular of the gold mines in French Guiana , where the workers , who are generally women , are exploited and work in absolutely deplorable health conditions .
. Let me associate myself , not least as a former Environment Minister , completely and without any reservation whatsoever , with the expressions of concern by honourable Members .
An objective assessment of the facts is not easy at this stage .
But early reports suggest that the poisoning of the Lepos , Tisza , Somes and Danube Rivers is a very serious environmental tragedy .
It has destroyed an entire ecosystem in a matter of days .
No living organisms , from microbes to otters , have been spared .
Several Members have set out what seems to have happened .
We have all seen some of the consequences on our television screens .
Some environmental experts have put the environmental consequences of this disaster , at least so far as damage to the ecosystem is concerned , on a par with Chernobyl .
It has affected the peoples of three countries - Romania , Hungary and Yugoslavia .
It is the Tisza , Hungary ' s second river , perhaps its most beautiful and most loved by its people , that has borne the brunt .
As with all such disasters it is the long-term consequences that are the most pernicious .
Some estimates suggest that it could take up to five years to restock the river .
There is a continuing threat to other wildlife from eating toxic fish .
We plainly have a responsibility to do everything we can , as rapidly as we can , to help cope with this catastrophe .
That is certainly the view of my colleague , Commissioner Wallstrm , who I know would have wished to respond to this resolution in person today .
We stand ready to do so .
We contacted the Romanian Government and the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River about the accident earlier this month to seek more information urgently .
The Romanians have approached UNEF and OCHA , in Geneva , for an assessment of the damage in the Danube catchment area by an independent and international team of experts .
We stand ready to assist in this assessment if there is a joint request from Hungary and Romania and if access to the sites for nationals of both countries can be guaranteed . That is obviously crucial .
It is plainly essential to establish as rapidly as possible an accurate picture of the scope of the damage so that we can decide exactly how best to help tackle it .
It is to that end that our efforts are now engaged .
There is also a need to clarify the legal responsibilities of the mining company and of the Romanian authorities .
This is an important point , as several speakers have suggested .
The polluter-pays principle is a cornerstone of European Union environmental policy .
It is mirrored in the International Convention for the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Danube River and it should be applied in this case .
The European Union could not substitute itself for the mining company for any compensation payments due .
The Union has mobilised some EUR 20 million over the past seven years to support protection of the Danube River basin .
We will want , in the longer term , to see what lessons can be drawn from this disaster , above all to see how to prevent such disasters happening in the first place .
The incident reinforces the case for a strengthening of European civil protection , along the lines suggested by President Prodi in his recent speech and as suggested by one or two Members today .
But for now the priority is to cope with this crisis .
As I have said , my colleague , Commissioner Wallstrm , is on the spot today .
She will want to keep Parliament closely in touch with the action she proposes as a result of her visit .
This has been an appalling tragedy for Europe and Europe has to respond and do all it can to ensure that incidents as dreadful as this do not continue to blight our future .
The debate is closed .
We shall now proceed to the vote .
VOTE
However , the measures set out in this resolution are derisory in terms of combating the policy of the major industrial groups which are shedding jobs and exacerbating unemployment .
Moreover , it is all just words , because the Socialist governments , which are now in a majority in Europe , are just as incapable of taking action to prevent redundancies as right-wing governments .
The real problem is not finding a legal way of slightly complicating redundancy procedures , but banning them .
Society must have the means of enforcing its own agenda on large companies and their owners . The first item on that agenda is the eradication of unemployment .
The sums needed to create useful jobs in public services and finance the distribution of work among everyone , without cutting wages , must be taken from the profits of large companies .
It is far more important for the majority of society than the waste involved in financial operations or the scandalous enrichment of a minority of large shareholders .
Tourism and employment
, rapporteur .
The importance of the tourist industry and its impact on employment - although everyone is now aware of this - is nevertheless based more on personal experience rather than on verifiable statistical data .
It would be appropriate , therefore , to begin by summarising the impact of tourism on the lives of Union citizens and the desirability , in both economic and social terms , of promoting the European tourist industry .
Firstly , I would remind you that the tourist industry is one of the infrastructures which any advanced society must have .
Without it , institutions , business and the world of work could not function .
Tourism must therefore be thought of as the whole range of goods and services required by individuals moving from their habitual place of residence and thus confers mobility , the characteristic feature of contemporary society .
The term ' tourism ' must no longer be solely perceived as synonymous with sun , sea and holidays , which has the effect of reducing the interest taken in the subject at institutional level .
Clearly , the importance of tourism for the economy of regions traditionally regarded as tourist destinations , southern regions for example , is very different , and should be studied carefully .
Social growth has occurred only in those areas where the tourist market has given rise to the development of all the activities required to meet the needs of visiting tourists , thus creating an entire productive system .
In such cases , there is a measurable increase in employment as a result of the growth in tourist numbers , thus establishing a virtuous circle of growth in the local economy .
In Europe today , the tourism market contributes 5.5 % of the gross national product and occupies a rather significant proportion of the workforce , approximately 6 % .
Those figures are incomparably higher for some countries .
It is therefore clear that besides being a matter of general economic interest for Europe , tourism is a priority for the economic and social participation of the European Union ' s regions .
Another factor is that the world market is growing explosively .
The forecast is for ten billion tourists in 2010 , but unfortunately for Europe there is a reverse trend .
Europe ' s share of the increase is falling drastically each year to the benefit of Asia , the Far East and America .
You see , the world tourism market is influenced every day and directly by the liberalisation of transport , its reduced cost , and competition from new centres of tourism outside Europe .
Here , then , I want to point out that international competition is tough and , if we are to overcome it positively , we must together envision and share a long-term strategy .
We must take very serious note of the need to upgrade the human resources engaged in tourism , so that tourism will be able to respond to the new technological challenges of our age .
The new technologies also make it possible to open new markets in traditionally undervalued , non tourist areas , which could develop to become centres of tourism and attract substantial investments .
To this new labour market there must be a response in the programmes of tourism schools and training programmes for company staff , including programmes for training the unemployed and their re-introduction to work .
We therefore ask the European Commission for special measures and to adopt the principle of equal opportunities in all tourism programmes and programmes for company development .
The Commission and Parliament are called upon to answer two questions : what are the right conditions and what is the role of the European Union on this ?
There is a shortage of facts : we have no information on the economic impact , which still remains a complete mystery .
We have criteria for the gathering and interpretation of statistics which are totally at odds with each other , despite what was said in a 1995 directive by the Commission and Parliament .
With the aim of working out a strategy , it is vital to have a reading of these facts which harmonious and as strict as possible , so that we truly make tourism capable of creating jobs .
This does not follow automatically : often in the past a great deal of wealth has been accumulated thanks to the promotion of the tourist industry , without this being matched by an increase in employment .
There is no legal basis , and we feel that this is currently the major obstacle to any intervention in the tourism sector .
A legal basis translates into the ability to formulate strategies , to coordinate and to programme , all vital factors for making European Union tourism competitive with other markets .
First and foremost , we need to compete in terms of quality .
Finally , we consider that tourism can , in addition to being a growth factor , be a factor for democracy , and in this regard we are asking the Commission for a clear , conscious commitment .
Mr President , there are three points I wish to address .
The first is the inclusion of a legal base in the Treaty .
This is something I favour , but currently as part of a minority in my own Group .
We are all fully conscious of the importance of tourism , both to local economies and as a factor of European integration .
The problem for some of us , however , is the lack of specification of the extent of the legal base and of just how it would relate to considerations of subsidiarity .
Second , there are similar issues related to the establishment of a multiannual programme for tourism .
The resolution contains many excellent ideas for the promotion of different types of tourism and for its increasing professionalism .
At the same time the Commission is currently concerned about confining itself to core tasks .
The question has to be asked whether some of the activities suggested in the resolution might not put more pressure on its resources than is desirable .
Third , there are several references in the resolution to permanent employment .
Of course the promotion of this is desirable and permanent employment need not necessarily mean full-time employment .
But there will always be people who are looking for seasonal employment .
Students are an obvious example .
We have some concern that the resolution does not give enough consideration to them and to ways in which their interests could receive specific protection .
Thus , while complimenting Mr Viceconte on his report and finding a great deal in the resolution to commend , we shall be asking for a number of split votes to allow these concerns to be addressed .
Mr President , during the most recent meeting of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , I was pleasantly surprised .
The opinion of Mr Snchez Garca , addressed to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs , contained a remark regarding the IGC .
The draftsman of the opinion held the view that there was no need for a legal foundation for tourism in the Treaty .
This was in contrast to the majority opinion held in the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism .
Having heard many Members who share the view expressed in the opinion , this was a real relief .
Unfortunately , his text has not survived the vote .
It does , however , support my view that I am not , apparently , the only one who cannot agree with the majority opinion .
This brings me to the content of the report .
An important aspect of the tourism industry is employment and potential employment .
Especially in the southern Member States , the tourist industry is a major source of income .
From this vantage point , there is every reason for the government to formulate stimulating measures and a stimulating policy .
The seasonal nature of tourism and the employment fluctuations that this entails also deserve attention .
I am surprised , however , at the fact that many want to achieve this by means of Community policy .
This is not desirable , either from the point of view of tourism itself or the stimulation of employment .
The discrepancies between the different regions can often be traced back to cultural or historical factors .
Within these regions , a huge range of problems have their part to play .
It is obvious that mainly local and regional - and , therefore , to a lesser extent national - authorities are best placed to assess the situation and draft appropriate policy .
For this reason , I cannot therefore endorse the transfer of powers to European level .
In addition , employment policy in general is also a factor .
Here too , the structure of the economy differs for each Member State , and the ways in which the current status has been achieved are diverse .
It will not do for one type of policy , probably with many exceptions and adaptations , to be applied .
This would mean that the EU would unjustly be removing tasks from Member States and that the Brussels bureaucracy would be intervening unnecessarily .
It is preferable for Member States to take measures to stimulate employment themselves .
Their expertise , is , of course , superior to that of the Commission .
This is why I am very hesitant when it comes to formulating Community measures to promote employment . Even in the tourism industry .
It would really be a nuisance if Parliament were to attempt to achieve this unofficially by extending its powers .
Mr President , you will understand that we cannot assent to the present resolution as it stands .
First of all I should like to thank Mr Viceconte for all the work that he has done on this report .
It is a very extensive report .
We greatly welcome it , just as we welcomed the original report that it was based on , the report of the high-level working group which was set up by the European Commission .
I hope that the Commission will not forget that .
Having set it up , I hope the Commission actually makes use of it and therefore does not just allow it to sit around in the corridors and gather dust .
Tourism is basically small businesses and therefore a very fertile area for job creation .
As has already been said in this debate , three million potential new jobs within the next ten years is something well worth going for .
Europe can no longer refuse to give the recognition - both political and in terms of policy-making - that the fastest growing sector of its economy deserves because of its economic and social position .
We need a more dynamic vision based on tourism ' s contribution to job creation .
We must recognise a sector that is predominantly engaged in cross-border activity and therefore deserves a European policy with a stimulating , innovative and proactive approach to sustainable business development .
I know the Commissioner is very keen on information technology .
He has convinced me of that .
But his portfolio of information technology and tourism actually go very well together .
There are several reasons why the tourism industry is an ideal test-bed , therefore , for integrating job creation strategies .
Let us look at some of these reasons .
The importance to the economy of tourism and its growth potential is obviously one .
Various sectors of the population are employed by the tourism industry , particularly the more vulnerable groups , such as young people , women and the unskilled .
I am not saying that we do not need to raise the skills within the sector - of course we do - but let us get the jobs established first .
The availability of unskilled , temporary and seasonal work is very important in some of the economic areas of the Community .
Tourism contributes to regional development - in rural areas that are maybe trying to diversify - and tourism contributes to urban areas that aim to raise the profile of their own cultural heritage .
If we take all these aspects together we have the potential of really doing something in Europe and maybe extending the tourism season by staggering holidays right across Europe .
We are losing market share .
I believe we have to do something to make ourselves more competitive .
I hope you will help us .
And of course , tourism creates more jobs and contributes to the stimulation of employment , especially among society ' s more sensitive sections : women and young people .
In view of all this , I think it is a serious contradiction that there is no European policy on tourism .
The lack of any legal base makes it impossible to adopt measures relating to the sector .
The occasional application of Article 308 - formerly Article 235 - which requires unanimity , has prevented the adoption of a programme even of only EUR 8 million for five years and 15 Member States .
With sorrow , I stress that in the context of restructuring the Commission ' s services , tourism is dealt with by a section , not even a directorate , within the Directorate-General for ' Enterprise ' .
But we must support our tourism !
Clearly it is impossible to adopt measures at the national level .
Since then , however , there has been no progress .
There must therefore be measures to improve the quality and competitiveness of Europe ' s tourism and , to the extent of the possible , safeguard the operation of companies .
Such measures must also aim to promote rational use of natural and cultural assets and of the tourism infrastructure , so contributing to the balanced and sustainable development of tourism .
Mr President , Commissioner , I should like to start by thanking Mr Viceconte for his report , which has drawn our attention to a sector which is all too often underestimated .
Tourism is a social , economic and cultural phenomenon which affects most European citizens , either as the recipients or the providers of a wide variety of services .
Every year , nearly 200 million Europeans leave their homes for a short time in order to travel , usually to other countries in Europe .
Moreover , Europe is still the main destination for tourists from third countries , even though it faces increasingly stiff competition and an increasingly diversified and attractive range of products .
Employment in the tourism sector is often highly seasonal and precarious , thereby hampering its sustainable development .
It is therefore even more urgent that we acquire and disseminate managerial and technological skills in order to promote new means of production and a supply of tourism which reflects market developments as closely as possible .
Let us not forget that , in the most remote regions , tourism is the most important industry in terms of income .
The income and employment generated by tourism help enormously in reducing imbalances and encouraging their economies to converge with the average rate of growth in the Community .
In addition , tourism can promote a certain cultural and economic rapprochement , insofar as it makes us more aware of other European cultures and thus helps respect for European ways of life to develop .
Mr President , we are having a major debate on a text of very little substance .
The basic document is really no more than a Commission communication which embraces the conclusions and recommendations of a high level group on tourism and employment .
Not only is there very little substance but this is also a rather old document dating from 28 April 1999 which therefore makes it nearly a year old .
I believe this is the first debate in this House with the new Commission and a new Commissioner , Mr Liikanen , who is of course listening very closely to what we are discussing .
I would take this opportunity to ask him a couple of questions directly .
Yet there is a Council resolution from last June on tourism and employment . What expectations does the Commissioner have that the new Intergovernmental Conference which is starting will include this aspect ?
This very afternoon we have had a debate on workers who suddenly find themselves unemployed . We now hope to be able to solve these problems .
Tourism is an activity that falls decidedly and fundamentally within the competence of the European Union .
All the European States are known throughout the world for being tourist magnets envied by all , including the United States of America , which we spoke about this afternoon with regard to the native Americans .
I would like to stress one point in the Viceconte report which I welcome and particularly support , and which I would like the House and the Commission to reflect on before giving a favourable response .
It regards tourism for senior citizens .
I usually see Commissioner Diamantopoulou desperately tearing her hair out , bit by bit , because the elderly live too long , leading to problems with pension payments .
Tourism brings the peoples of the fifteen States and of the entire world closer together , and of course , it leads to peace and understanding .
This kind of tourism , which is undertaken mainly by large numbers of senior citizens , is just as important .
Senior citizens are always on holiday , all year round , from 1 January through to 31 December because they do not work and do not have just one month off during the year .
Unfortunately , this is not true of them all , but this is why I am calling on the Commission to follow up on the Viceconte report .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
( The sitting was closed at 7.40 p.m. )
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of yesterday ' s sitting have been distributed .
Are there any comments ?
This declaration - which , as I have said , implicates the European Parliament , although no such declaration was put before this Parliament - is a completely unacceptable form of manipulation .
I thank the President , Mrs Fontaine , who just yesterday expressed her opinion by refuting the implication of this House .
I would like these words to be heard , because the European Parliament cannot be implicated in this way in a crazy declaration which I consider to be totally unacceptable .
Thank you , Mr Nogueira , for your explanation .
I would remind you that questions on the Minutes should refer to the Minutes .
In any event , for those Members who not aware of the President ' s position , I will read the official communication and it will thereby appear in today ' s Minutes :
" On 17 February , Mrs Nicole Fontaine , President of the European Parliament , received as guests , at their request , the representatives of the Forum d ' Ermua .
The Spanish Vice-Presidents of the European Parliament were represented .
Following this interview , the representatives of this Forum presented her with a text entitled " Strasbourg Declaration " . The President wishes to specify that under no circumstances does she sanction the terms of this " declaration " .
Strasbourg , 17 February " .
I therefore believe that the issue is totally cleared up .
Mr President , I would like to request a correction to the Minutes regarding the vote on Amendment No 5 of the Swoboda report .
Please note that Mr Michel Raymond , Mr Jean Saint-Josse and I voted against this amendment .
We take note and this will appear in the Minutes .
We should consider on principle whether there is any point at all in holding these kinds of meetings .
I have the feeling they are just another compulsory exercise we have to perform .
So I think we should consider simply abolishing these meetings once and for all .
Surely we should be more selective .
In any event , the Bureau will consider your suggestion .
( The Minutes were approved )
VOTE
We think its inclusion there would be both more appropriate and more effective .
Mr President , the subsidiarity principle is one of the fundamental principles underlying cooperation in the European Union .
It is high time it was properly evaluated and that a system was set up which clearly identifies the EU 's areas of competence .
A criticism which is often levelled at the EU and which , to some extent , is justified is that it is involved in far too many areas .
One such area is tourism which , by its very nature , is very much a national concern .
In so far as tourism falls within the political domain , it should be at national , regional and local level .
Tourism is a major source of employment and has a role to play as regards the EU 's financial support for less well-off regions .
Even in that respect , any cooperation should , however , be carried out according to the subsidiarity principle .
Because tourism can also have a harmful impact on the environment , there needs to be a strategy for damage limitation .
However , such a strategy should come within the framework of environmental policy .
The report laments the lack of a legal basis for a policy on tourism .
However , the Swedish Christian Democrats would oppose any such development as we believe that tourism is a matter with which the European Union should only be marginally concerned .
. ( DA ) Tourism is a significant source of international understanding and an important part of the labour market , which ought to be promoted and encouraged .
It is of inestimable importance that people in Europe , as well as in the rest of the world , should have the opportunity to experience each other ' s ways of ordering their lives and their societies .
Policy on tourism is not , however , something which ought to be planned and decided upon by the European Parliament or by the EU as a whole .
I am therefore voting against the proposal .
Mr Tajani will accept that it is a little difficult to understand the relationship between his intervention and the points of order , but I understand his political meaning .
We will proceed to the debate itself and Mr Monti will take the floor on behalf of the Commission .
European postal services
Mr President , the postal sector continues to be an area in which old , outdated monopolies are allowed to operate regardless of the requirements of competition .
And , in the absence of any energetic action by the Commission , the situation has gone on for far too long .
The EU ' s competition authority has intervened in all other areas , but not in the postal sector .
One of the EU ' s most important tenets is the need for a common internal market .
We are currently working hard to enlarge this to include ever more Member States .
That requires greater efficiency which , in turn , is dependent on competition .
Today , one area after another is being compelled to introduce deregulation and liberalisation , an exercise in which the EU often leads the way , while the Commission 's determination to make progress serves as a model .
The Commission is committed to liberalisation because experience has shown that the old monopolies are unable to provide the efficient service which a modern society expects .
It has been done in a number of different areas but , unfortunately , the postal sector has remained the one major exception until now .
It can hardly be because customers are satisfied .
We are all familiar with the much-criticised price hikes , and delayed deliveries are a constant topic of discussion .
If we really want a functioning internal market , we cannot go on constantly making an exception of the postal services .
A number of countries have been in the forefront of introducing more competitive postal services . The Netherlands , Finland and Sweden have travelled furthest along this road .
During the 1990s , they were able to show the benefits that could be achieved .
Moreover , Sweden has introduced the changes gradually in a climate of political consensus .
The process should be allowed to continue and be given the necessary encouragement .
Experience has shown that the old monopolies cannot provide the type of efficient service which , as customers , we are all entitled to expect .
Prior to this discussion , a letter was sent out by supporters of the old monopolies .
They hold up Sweden as a warning , which might be appropriate in certain instances , but not as regards postal services .
It is alleged in a circular that the price of postage has gone up by 59 per cent since liberalisation in 1993 .
However , for the 80 per cent of services where there is a competitive market , prices have fallen .
That shows that competition really is working .
My conclusion is therefore : make sure that there is competition in the remaining 20 per cent of the market , too .
It is against just such a background that more and more people are calling for ...
( The speaker is interrupted by Mr Markov ) I thought I had the floor .
Perhaps we can discuss this later on .
However , I should like to affirm that it is exactly as I said , namely , that prices have fallen in areas where there is competition , whereas they have risen where there is still a monopoly .
That is usually the case .
That is why I should now like to see a Commission that takes the necessary initiatives and sees to it that there is effective competition in the postal sector .
Mr Markov , in five or six minutes time , you will be allowed a few minutes to speak .
I would be grateful if you would not interrupt other Members .
Mr President , there is a mystery .
What happened to the Postal Services Directive that was passed on 15 December 1997 ?
There has been a deafening silence from the Commission during the period between then and now .
I am sorry it is Commissioner Monti who is here today .
I am very fond of him .
He is one of the more diligent and hard working commissioners .
It is a pity I cannot say the same for some of his other colleagues .
There has , over this period , been no real progress on the Postal Services Directive .
Commissioner Monti stated that part of the reason for this was the organisation and reallocation of duties .
That has only happened recently .
For over a year the old Commission could have done some work on this .
We really have not progressed very far .
However , since Commissioner Monti is here , I would like him to take a message back to Commissioner Bolkestein telling him what the Postal Services Directive was about .
It was about gradual liberalisation ; it was about a guaranteed universal service at an affordable price ; it was about direct mail and cross-border mail remaining in the reserved sector .
These issues were fundamental in that report and they should be fundamental in any forthcoming directive .
The postal service is not just for Christmas .
It is for life .
In the area in Scotland I come from it is much more than just a postal service .
It is about keeping communities together .
The postal service is also the bus service .
The postal service is also the social service .
The postal service is also the doctor .
If we allow the postal services to drift into complete privatisation then we will lose all that and many of our local communities - we were voting earlier on tourism - will lose their tourist trade .
We will cut them off .
The postal services are important .
That message must be taken back from here today .
The Commission must listen to it .
Mr President , we are in favour of liberalising the Union ' s postal services .
This should first of all stand for better service .
This is the intention and it must be the ultimate goal .
Liberalisation began because there was doubt regarding the structure of the postal services and the value of a monopoly .
Is a monopoly flexible enough in a market where the customer ' s requirements and the market situation can change very rapidly , because , for example , the use of electronic data carriers has increased dramatically ?
The question is , therefore : what are the demands that a monopoly or part of a service which is governed by a monopoly needs to meet ?
As you can see , as a new MEP , I am trying to get to grips with the dossier and I must admit that I have great difficulty doing so .
I think that the Commission could have been more pro-active on this score and could have also provided us with the studies which it had promised to give us and which we had requested .
As far as I know , that has still not happened .
I would therefore ask you , Commissioner , to help me in my task as a new Member .
Like Mr Miller , I would welcome an explanation from you regarding the implementation of the 1997 directive within the next couple of months or weeks or , if at all possible , within the next couple of days .
I would welcome more concrete information on this .
Apparently , the postal service is a very strong lobby and rightly so .
There are hundreds of thousands of people who earn their living at the Post Office .
But in Belgium too , there are a great number of people , older people for example , who only see one other person in the day and that is the postman .
We should not overlook this fact : postal service is about more than just ferrying around letters and parcels .
The postal service is also extremely important to companies .
A study has shown that 90 % of the postal traffic is between companies and only 10 % between individuals .
What exactly do you intend to liberalise ?
I would like more information on this , because the key question is how you can better serve the customer using the existing services .
There are postal companies which have a monopoly and are doing a reasonably good job .
We need to protect this type of arrangement and denounce other things .
This concerns us deeply and that is why we requested this debate today .
That is not the sort of postal service that we want .
The economic value of the postal service was recognised by the Treaty of Amsterdam and we consider that it goes far beyond the distribution of mail .
The matter of the European Union ' s recognition of a high-quality postal service , available to all , remains valid today , and we are increasingly concerned .
That is why today we are asking not to have any nasty surprises in the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism come Monday .
Let us point out that Parliament ' s positions were clearly defined and that the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance supported them .
This resolution of 14 January 1999 required that , prior to undertaking any liberalisation of this key sector , involving 1.7 million employees after all , the Commission should provide impact studies for this liberalisation .
I shall not repeat all the various statements he made at his hearing , I think we all still remember them .
We further maintain that we are waiting for this proper evaluation before any definitive decision , as stipulated in the directive and the revision of the 1997 directive .
Mr President , I share the view that we need to make more progress from the point of view of efficiency and the analysis of the cost-effectiveness of the services offered .
But as an entrepreneur myself , I really cannot understand why it is always assumed this can only be done under the headings of " privatisation " and " liberalisation " !
Or perhaps people are not concerned with creating the same conditions of access to the postal services for all , but are thinking only of the capital employment conditions for companies in large conglomerations .
Members should however represent all the citizens , which means it is their duty to think not in terms of business management but in terms of the national economy .
In practice that means the following for the postal services : firstly , priority must be given to employment .
I have nothing against liberalisation and privatisation , but the premises must be right .
Secondly , we must guarantee that the citizens are not faced with reduced postal services .
Examples in Germany and Sweden show that this certainly is a risk .
Mr Stenmarck , Sweden is the only country in which prices rose far higher after liberalisation than in all the other Member States of the European Union .
So that is another potential effect and one that we must prevent .
On the question of the cost-effectiveness of the various postage weights , it is worth considering further price cuts ; but that is what the postal administration itself is saying .
We do not have to adhere to a weight of over 300g when the analysis shows that we need to ensure a minimum weight of 150g to make it at all worthwhile .
In that respect I believe it was right and important to hold this debate today , to make Mr Bolkestein aware of Parliament ' s position and allow him to take certain aspects into account from the outset .
What has become of it ?
Do we have the results of this impact study ?
This is already an intolerable withdrawal of the public service .
So you can appreciate why I am afraid of a phase of extensive liberalisation , and a package of measures which will entail a new wave of depopulation .
As you know , in our country , each village has its own local post office or at least a post box , with a collection every day .
If postal services are liberalised in a poorly regulated way , more post offices will be closed , in the name of this infamous profitability , which is often the cause of rural regression .
Once again , Europe is distancing itself from its poorest and most vulnerable inhabitants .
Everyone is free to choose their lifestyle . They should be able to do so without compromising their equal opportunities and equal treatment .
In sport the saying goes , " Do not change a winning team . "
Why should we wish to change a system which is satisfactory ?
The universal service will be able to fulfil its social mission only if it retains an area of monopoly enabling it to balance its budget .
We are told we should change the limit from 350 grammes to 150 grammes , or even 50 grammes .
So be it . But the 200 grammes that make up the difference will be seized upon by many private and therefore profitable bodies .
If revenue is lost , then public interest operations will be revised and cut , and again it is in rural areas that the most swingeing cuts will be made .
Mr President , I am one of those who agree that it is appropriate that this particular service should be regulated at European level .
If people are to be free to provide services across borders it is only fair and reasonable that we should have European regulations to govern it .
In Ireland some services are provided by companies from outside Ireland , for example , English companies certainly operate there .
But this directive has never been transposed into national law .
It is the job of the Commission to ensure that national governments take account of their legal obligations under European law and transpose European directives .
That has not been done in Ireland although a certain liberalisation has taken place and has not been impeded by the national government .
A small segment of our market has been taken over by private operators .
This is another example of the importance of moving forward with common legislation and ensuring that it is put into effect throughout the Union .
I come from a rural area .
I support the principle of liberalising and the right of everybody to compete and I recognise the benefits that common regulation and liberalisation has brought over the years .
For example it has enabled us to fly from peripheral parts of the European Union to the centre for a fraction of the cost of 20 years ago .
I remember when people came into this House lobbying us in the national interest not to allow this liberalisation .
We allowed it and the result is that our young people can travel and broaden their education .
Our older people , even though on social welfare , can enjoy the benefits of travel .
So liberalisation has taken a lot of parasites off our back in many areas and enabled many people to enjoy higher standards of living .
On the other hand this is not a free market without limits and if you come from a rural area you recognise that some services in the free market situation cannot and will not be provided .
So , the Commission , in bringing forward their new proposals , must remember those sparsely populated rural areas and not put anything in this legislation which will deprive those areas of the opportunities of having those services .
In rural areas , for many years , even before the Irish Free State came into existence , we sometimes had this service of a post office .
Today , it is probably the only public service in many remote areas and people are concerned that European legislation will eventually make it difficult to maintain it .
I want to underline the fact that the existing legislation protects rather than threatens the right of every citizen in every remote area to have this service .
But complaints are made by private individuals about social welfare being paid in the post offices in Ireland .
I want the Commission to recognise that this is a necessary social service .
It should go hand in hand with our postal services in rural areas .
We must implement what the directive insists on , that the postal service is available to everybody .
The postal services in Greece , Great Britain , the Netherlands or Belgium are , of course , all different .
How can a universal service provider in my country survive with the liberalisation of cross-border mail which amounts to approximately 25 % , as opposed to less than 5 % in other countries ?
How are we to deal with the transfer of the national post office ' s business abroad ?
We have just heard Mr McCartin on the subject .
But what will those limits be ?
In any event , we ask the Commission to lay its cards on the table and put forward its proposals , having examined the ultimate foreseeable development of the matter from every aspect and for all the Member States .
It is self-evident that liberalisation is not an end in itself , but only a means towards improving services .
But then again , the central theme of the liberalisation of the postal services is employment .
Past experiences have sufficiently shown that early retirement schemes and voluntary redundancy schemes often have an undesired effect .
I would remind you of the fact that the Belgian telephone company had to recall employees who had been sent into retirement in order to prevent too much know-how and expertise from disappearing from the company .
Once again , the point of discussion in the liberalisation of the postal services will no doubt be a reduction in the workforce .
Mr President , postal services and post offices seem to be very topical in Parliament at the moment and rightly so , given their importance .
Only last week , in the UK parliament at Westminster the newly-elected MP from our European Free Alliance partners , Plaid Cymru , the party of Wales , made his maiden speech on that subject .
The Scottish parliament too recently had a debate with particular reference to the role which post offices , especially in rural areas , play in service provision and the sustainability of rural communities .
Liberalisation is not the only potential threat to post office services .
Post office outlets in Scotland , as we have heard , handle much more than just mail delivery .
Traditionally they have been used by governments and some local authorities as an agency for the payment of state pensions and other benefits as well as a local collection centre for house rents , local taxes and so on .
But as the modernisation of public financial systems leads to more and more electronic cash movements straight to and from bank accounts , so the viability of rural post offices is being threatened .
If a rural post office closes , usually with the only local shop attached , then a major threat to community sustainability and to social inclusion can result .
Mr President , the task of the post office is to ensure that , every day , the post is delivered everywhere , be it in the city or in remote , rural areas , at the same tariff .
For 150 years , the postal services have been a public affair and , as such , just like public transport and the power supply , a core task of the national governments .
Such recognisable and useful core tasks give the electorate a reason to vote .
They are much less interested in a government which takes no interest in these affairs .
I once heard a Christian Democratic politician make the following comment in a Dutch village : " The postal service belongs to us all ; taking it away from us is tantamount to theft " .
The existing postal companies no longer fall under democratic control and room is being made for competitors .
The newcomers are only interested in those parts of the work that generate high profits at low cost and low prices .
They can be the cheapest for a while only by means of a drop in quality for their customers and employees .
Such companies have always been around , but they used to be banned , whereas these days they are being heralded as progress .
The end result will be that existing companies will also be forced into bad practices .
They will get their workforce to do more work at lower wages .
It is time we stopped this trend .
A fault confessed is half redressed .
We are better off with one democratically controlled monopoly than the waste and chaos brought on by competition which cannot be controlled .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , people used to be summoned to demonstrations by letter or telegram ; nowadays this is done by e-mail and via websites !
It is clear that electronic mail , electronic commerce is going to become extremely important in the future .
I also see this as offering special potential for the existing postal service .
We know that until the year 2002 it will not be possible to fill some 1.2 million jobs in the field of electronic commerce because we do not have the skilled workers needed for this market .
I believe that this opens up very extensive employment potential in the postal administration in particular , which can prepare its existing staff for this very interesting challenge by means of training and further training measures .
Of course the existing rural post offices also have a strategic advantage , because they are so densely distributed throughout Europe .
That is why the physical handling of these transactions will also become increasingly important .
The collection , sorting , transportation and delivery of mail will take on an entirely new dimension .
I believe that in future we must seize this opportunity .
As politicians we must devote special attention to defending consumer interests .
We want our consumers to obtain as much as possible for the wages they are paid .
That faces us with the very important challenge of offering the consumers cheaper postal services .
We should take a look - thinking also of benchmarking - at what the consumer currently pays for an employee in the existing postal services and what he pays for an employee in the private sector .
I think it is important for the unions too to operate under uniform economic and social framework conditions so as to achieve the best results for their members on a basis of justice , fairness and solidarity .
But I also believe that in future we will have to make the universal service sufficiently attractive .
We should define the universal service precisely , establish efficiency criteria and then issue invitations to tender .
I believe we must avoid further subsidies and should try to ensure that the private supplier and the consumer benefit from the new system .
They also play a major role in maintaining links between people .
Let me cite the example of the initiative of the French postal service , which decided , for instance , to make interpreters and writers available to the public in post offices in problem urban areas .
Without even mentioning the jobs in related sectors , European public postal services today employ one and a half million operatives whose futures are clearly threatened by the spectre of radical , untrammelled liberalisation .
The European Parliament was confident of reconciling openness to competition with the obligation to provide a universal service in a manner which safeguards jobs .
Indeed it is regrettable that to date - as the resolution we are debating points out - the Commission has not taken account of the resolution of 14 January 1999 .
That resolution called for the European Parliament to be involved in drawing up the planned measures and urged that the reliability of impact studies regarding liberalisation should be improved .
These impact studies are necessary in order to assess the effects of any untrammelled liberalisation , not just on the economic organisation of the market , but also in terms of its human and social aspects .
The delays in the Commission ' s work will inevitably have a knock-on effect on the proposed timetable and the deadline of 2003 must certainly be called into question .
By defining a sector reserved for public postal services , on the basis of weight and price limits , the postal service directive would clear the way for controlled liberalisation in phases .
The sudden reduction of these limits poses a threat to the balance between the obligation to provide a public service and economic viability for postal services .
Mr President , I rise as other Scottish Members of this House , representatives of Scotland , to protest against anything that lead to a decline in the quality of rural life in remote parts .
The postal service and the post office are a vital feature of life in rural communities throughout Europe and not least in Scotland .
It would be a disaster if action were deliberately , or even inadvertently , taken which had the effect of damaging that .
I do not believe that it is anybody ' s intention to do so .
I do not believe that the Commission has set out to make war upon the islands of Scotland or Greece .
But they might accidentally do great damage .
The point is to determine at what speed and by what methods the gradual liberalisation of the postal services should take place .
If too low a limit were set for the continuing monopoly right of the postal service , it would become uneconomical to maintain in the outlying areas universality of service at what would remain an affordable rate .
The critical thing is to balance universality and affordability .
The message that is coming very clearly from all sides of the House to the Commission today is that the Commission should tread warily .
The Commission should not , for example , take a stepwise jump from 350 grammes to , as some have suggested , as low as 50 grammes .
On the contrary , it should proceed cautiously .
I imagine anything less than 150 grammes would be extremely unwise in these circumstances .
The solidarity and cohesion of people all over Europe depend on the thought that you can post a letter anywhere and it will be delivered anywhere else , at an affordable stamp price .
Stand by universality and affordability !
Mr President , the only way to guarantee a high-quality universal postal service is to keep this as a public service .
This service must therefore be kept public .
In our opinion , the whole process of applying this directive must therefore be halted , including its timetable .
I think ours is a different approach !
European policy has liberalised monopoly markets - energy , telecommunications and air transport - and the target , the focus , was always the consumer .
The aim was simply to offer a better service and also to put the emphasis on the user in liberalising the postal services .
I think the consumer can decide for himself and define in advance what he needs .
He does not need a government to do so , or a parliament , nor does he need a Commission to do so !
The postal market is limping along behind and , sadly , we have wasted valuable time here .
I believe we should give the postal service a chance to adapt to new trends .
I am thinking here of the very sound words of Mr Rbig , who also talked about e-commerce .
That will develop very quickly and present the various undertakings in our society with new challenges ; we will have to adapt very flexibly and rapidly to these challenges .
I believe a liberalised market will speed up this process more than a less liberalised market .
It also offers some prospect of conveying a positive picture of European policy .
We should seize that opportunity , for the citizen keeps asking , why do we have Europe ?
These are areas where the citizen can see and understand the benefit of Europe .
I am glad Mr Monti , the Commissioner for competition , is here today in person , for he is pursuing an excellent policy .
We are in favour of competition as a component of the social market economy , and of course we are also in favour of it because we want this economic system to be as successful as possible .
Yet I believe that , as this debate has shown , we have to discuss the limits to competition in some areas .
So I would ask you to give an impetus in that direction , together with Parliament .
I believe we should use this legislative term to determine the limits , the positive aspects of competition .
For competition is not an end in itself ; it is there to serve of the citizen , the consumer , which is why we should consider the areas in which we do not want it .
Mr President , liberalising postal services could increase competitiveness in the postal sector and guarantee cheaper and more flexible services for the public ; it could also address the challenges brought by modern technology .
I emphasise the word ' could ' , and that is if it is done well and with care .
Wrongly done , the threatening images that have been described here will certainly become a reality .
On the other hand , the losers will be the remote areas and their inhabitants , and the people that will not benefit from the new services .
I think this policy has been reasonably successful in Finland , as testified by the present public system .
Mr President , a precise assessment of the effects of the first directive is the least we can ask for when approaching the future of the public postal service .
It would be obscene to wish to settle the fate of hundreds of thousands of postal workers , millions of service users , in a great rush .
But , despite the unfavourable opinion of ten European postal services , a form of unacknowledged privatisation is brewing in the corridors of the Commission .
By lowering the price / weight threshold reserved for public postal services and by liberalising mailshots or cross-border post , the second directive may offer the most profitable sectors to the competitive sector .
Postal services may then keep whatever does not whet the appetite of the private operators .
Whether total or partial , privatisation will only make an already dismal situation worse .
Just the example of the privatisation of British rail services should suffice to prove the extent to which opting for maximum profit is antipathetic to maintaining a socially useful service .
Mr President , today ' s debate comes under the sign of the snail , not because I ate such excellent snails here in Strasbourg yesterday but because the snail is a symbol of slow progress .
One example of this slow progress is the way the Commission is proceeding .
This study is taking far too long and we feel it is important to speed up the pace at last .
I am most grateful to the Commissioner for his plain talking today and I would ask the Commission to force the pace now .
Today ' s debate makes it quite clear that Parliament wants more emphasis on speed , not speed at the expense of quality , but then slowness alone does not mean quality either .
This brings me to my second point , namely the snail as symbol of our postal services .
What has happened over the past 200 years is that the time it takes for a letter to go from Munich to Brussels has increased fivefold .
Letters to Strasbourg arrive there a bit sooner , but it still takes far too long .
That means that since the days of mail-coaches and taxis , we have seen a steady decline in the quality of services .
So I believe that in relation to conventional mail we must do what Mr Radwan described in such excellent terms , namely encourage competition on the one hand and on the other , define the limits .
But what we have often seen in recent years was the very opposite !
Some speakers have referred to the social importance of the postman . Let me add to that , the importance of the post offices .
They have referred to rural and sparsely populated areas .
I come from Munich , a very densely populated urban conglomeration , but we have the same problem there .
One urban district post office after another is being closed down .
We have a disproportionately large number of old people in these large cities , who are becoming increasingly lonely with the decline in the number of retail shops .
That is why we must define certain minimum standards here too and realise that it is important to provide the necessary services for the people .
So , yes to liberalisation , but let us also think about the limits to liberalisation , rapidly create reasonable conditions in Europe and submit the appropriate study to the Commission .
I would hope that in future the symbol of European postal policy will no longer be the snail but that our post will finally be dispatched post-haste .
That is a term that harks back to the time when the post was still the symbol of speed .
Like Mr Radwan , I am glad that Commissioner Monti is here rather than Commissioner Bolkestein because I believe that he can explain to us certain aspects relating to competition .
Competition policy will no doubt have to be applied to this sector before the coming liberalisation - before 1 January 2003 - because at the moment the tendency is to divert mail via countries with lower postage rates .
This has consequences for free competition between the different postal administrations .
In the event that liberalisation is brought about throughout the European Union , what consequences would that have for free competition ?
For the moment , it appears that , in the only country where liberalisation has taken place - Sweden - there has been a 59 % increase in the price of postal services .
We do not know what will happen in each of the countries where liberalisation is going to take place .
For example , there are currently companies which set up in Holland because the postal charges are lower than in Germany and the same may happen in the future .
In a service which is theoretically liberalised , free competition may disappear as a result of the concentration of the service amongst large companies abusing their dominant position , agreements between companies and other similar circumstances .
I would therefore advise Commissioner Monti to deal with the issue of postal liberalisation , taking strict account of free competition , because I believe that this will probably become a very worrying issue in the future .
My prediction is that the liberalised postal services will probably be much less competitive than the current public postal services .
Mr President , the postal service is not a normal service provider like a hairdresser ' s or a fitness centre .
For us in Finland , a sparsely populated country , a visit to the post office is a social event .
In the world of networking , the mail service is the most democratic of all networks .
It creates and maintains interpersonal relationships .
The common market in postal services will be created on the terms of the marketeers .
For us in the north it will mean that the EU will be destroying the social infrastructure .
Commissioner Monti , the principle of competition cannot be applied to interpersonal relationships : postal services must be improved , not run down .
Only a public mail service can guarantee that information technology is within everyone ' s reach in society .
The post office is democracy .
It is better suited to handling such matters than telecommunications companies .
Telecommunications costs have risen as a consequence of companies being bought and sold and marketing costs accounting for more than 50 % of companies ' turnover .
Democratic investments have to be made to preserve a democratic post office .
I would suggest that there is a solution .
It is already employed widely in the transport sector .
Air routes , ferry routes , train routes , bus routes , within and to these remoter areas are put out to tender .
The bidder who offers to provide the specific service at a specific quality level and at the lowest subsidy level gets the contract .
Let us call this a negative tender franchise .
This permits desirable competition in providing these services under a publicly-supported but fully transparent franchise system .
Why could not mail collection and delivery in a certain region be put to negative tender in this manner ?
The lowest subsidy would win the franchise for a certain period of time .
Why could not the sub-post office in a remote village also be put out to this sort of negative tender ?
Otherwise the postal services can be left to all the demands and constraints of the marketplace .
Mr President , Commissioner , it is no coincidence that I am the fifth Member of this House from Scotland to rise to speak in this debate .
That is a measure of the importance to us of our postal services .
Scotland as a country is larger than some Member States .
It has many remote mainland communities accessible only by road , sometimes served poorly by public transport , sometimes not at all .
Such communities rely for their survival on having local facilities , such as a school , a post office and a shop .
It is on the last two that the elderly , in particular , depend .
Often they are located together , each service being made more viable by the existence of the other .
Scotland also has many island communities , some of which can be reached by air but most of which depend on sea ferries .
It has been calculated that the actual cost of carrying a letter from Edinburgh to the Central Highlands is about ten times that of carrying the same letter across London .
And it is about four times the postage cost actually charged .
The more remote the community , the greater the difference becomes .
That is the measure of the problem .
It is not to oppose liberalisation to ask that it be done in a way that takes account of these factors and allows the continuation of a universal and affordable postal service .
.
Mr President , I consider it a privilege that I am replacing my colleague , Commissioner Bolkestein , on the occasion of such a high-quality debate on postal services .
I will try to respond to the debate on the basis of information provided by Commissioner Bolkestein .
May I repeat that on Monday he will be available to the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism of Parliament .
Some Members , like Mr Stenmarck , complain that there have been delays with the new proposal .
Others believe that it is not so bad after all , if there is a slight pause after the first step of liberalisation .
This is , for example , the position expressed by Mr Berthu .
The Commission ' s position is that the new proposal was delayed mainly owing to the internal problems of the Commission , of which I am sure Parliament is not totally unaware .
But we feel that there is a legal obligation for a proposal to be made .
It is Commissioner Bolkestein ' s intention to present such a proposal to the Commission for adoption in the first half of this year .
The scheduled date of 1 January 2003 for implementation of the next steps remains feasible .
The proposal will take account of the studies undertaken and in particular look at such issues as universal service , to which I will come back in a second .
As regards the existing directive and its implementation , most Member States have taken the necessary legal measures to transpose the directive .
A number of problems exist as regards the structure of the regulator and its independence .
The implementation deadline for the Member States is January 2003 .
Further liberalisation will occur afterwards .
In some areas competition is already taking place , as in the parcels sector and in the express services .
The quality of services has , generally speaking , improved , in particular in regard to cross-border activity .
The quality of services , which is so relevant to consumers , was a main concern of all speakers , some of whom , like Mr Rbig , were very explicit on this point .
So this is not a selling-out of the service and of its quality .
Frequently liberalisation leads to guaranteed standards and the on-going standardisation of the measurement of the quality of service also contributes , as these standards will better reflect actual performance .
This will allow for meaningful bench-marking and improved customer orientation by the incumbent operator as a result of the combined pressure by regulators , competitors and customers .
We can see in the incumbent operators , in public post offices , a change of culture that I believe nobody can consider negative if the current trend towards concentrating on customers ' needs continues .
The concerns expressed in this Parliament this morning by honourable Members will be at the core of the activity of my colleague and of the Commission as a whole in the preparation of the further proposal .
The issue of universal service was mentioned by Mrs Isler Bguin , by Mr Miller , whom I thank for his personal message , and by many others .
We believe that the universal service is a pillar and I am sure that my colleague will be able to provide reassurances to the appropriate parliamentary committee .
Mrs Gillig , but others like Mr Markov and Mr sclope , voiced concerns about employment .
In the postal sector the first phase is already in progress , as the universal service providers have embarked on a process of modernisation .
The new technologies and logistics rather than the process of postal liberalisation are the most important factors impacting on employment .
On the availability of the studies , - a point raised by Mr Staes and others - copies of each of the studies were handed to Parliament in September 1999 .
They have all been available on the Commission ' s Internet website since August 1999 and the Commission is willing to provide copies to anybody who is interested .
The studies have been the object of some criticism , especially on the part of the public postal services .
I am aware that all the studies launched experienced difficulty in collecting adequate data .
This was no surprise , since the universal service operators do not always have the systems in place for detailed letter collection .
Does that not say a lot about management ability ?
No single methodology for accessing the cost and financing of the universal service is accepted by all the parties .
Nevertheless , Mr Bolkestein is convinced that the studies undertaken provide enough clarity and precision to form the basis of the decision-making process .
I finally come to three interventions about a subject I am supposed to know better than postal services , that is competition .
Mr Purvis , I found your methodologically provocative remark about the tender interesting and certainly worth exploring .
This applies both to the post and other sectors .
We have just received the reply of the German Government to the observations made .
The state aid procedure covers the question of cross-subsidisation between monopoly letter services and commercial business parcel activities as well as the financing of Deutsche Post ' s numerous recent acquisitions .
I will not go into the details due to lack of time , but this is perhaps one illustration of the fact that the Commission does not stop its work as liberalisation progresses .
In a sense this is where its work begins .
Finally , Mr Radwan , of course , there should be limits to competition and there are limits to competition .
That concept I reject firmly , because competition is there for the citizens , and for them alone .
Most companies hate competition .
Competition is run and managed in the interest of the citizens , their economic interest and for their liberty .
The examples of liberalisation and competition in air transport and in telephony services in Europe show that citizens have benefited from this .
I can only say again that Commissioner Bolkestein will be able to address all the concerns on Monday , in the appropriate committee , more competently and in much more detail .
Thank you very much , Commissioner .
Pursuant to Rule 42 ( 5 ) , I have received a motion for a resolution to close the present debate .
The debate is closed .
We shall now proceed to the vote .
( Parliament adopted the resolution ) EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE
This does not mean that we approve the entire contents , which are too vague and which leave out the main concern .
Postal services must continue to be public services .
All people , regardless of their location or social status , must have access to the postal service on an equal footing and subject to the same conditions .
In organising the public service no consideration must be given to the idea of profitability , and private firms must not be authorised to amass private profits by carrying off the most profitable public service activities .
Consequently , the post office and its equivalents in the various countries of Europe must keep their monopoly of this service .
The post office and , more generally , all public services must , on the other hand , recruit additional staff .
Such jobs are unquestionably useful , and creating an adequate number of them would reduce unemployment in Europe .
Mr President , personally I voted in favour of this resolution , because the essential thing is that the European Parliament should discuss the postal service and we should get away from the current ambiguous situation .
If we dismantle the public service , this would be very serious , and we wish to know what are the Commission ' s intentions .
Saying that the client will receive a better service at a lower cost is patently inaccurate .
People who live a long way from civilisation will clearly not receive a better service or else they will then have to pay a great deal and some of them will not be in a position to do so .
Postal services do not provide simply a postal delivery service but also a social service .
Occasionally for some people the postman is the only person they see all day .
We can salute them , these postmen who , whatever the weather , sometimes walk for miles to be able to offer this service to everyone .
Dismantling the postal service , the local communication service , would be a serious mistake and we would be unable to maintain the principle of the equality of all citizens .
Profitability at all costs means going against fraternity and against social cohesion .
Mr President , I voted for the resolution and should like to explain my motives .
Several speakers mentioned that the only person with whom many elderly people have any contact is the postman , particularly in mountain communities .
I wholeheartedly agree . However , it also seems to me that the pensions of many elderly people are being reduced as a result of national budget constraints .
That should amply compensate them for forgoing their contact with the postman .
I know that this service is unprofitable .
It would perhaps be less costly to make a fax or email available to isolated houses or villages .
If they cannot be obliged to provide what the state monopoly was able to guarantee , particularly thanks to its obligation to provide a universal service , then the public service must be protected .
I feel we can still afford to maintain a postal service , even if our post offices operate like businesses .
They clearly have to make some effort so that they are no longer described as snail mail even if they cannot attain the speed of email .
. ( FR ) Here indeed is a sector which has highlighted the limitations and serious deficiencies of liberalisation .
If liberalisation continues in this area too , then there is a great risk that one day we will see entire regions with no postal service .
I am a European and even a federalist .
To achieve this I was ready and I am ready to make certain sacrifices , but not just anything !
President .
Parliament has completed the agenda .
The Minutes of this sitting will be submitted for approval by Parliament at the beginning of the next part-session .
Adjournment of the session
I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned .
( The sitting was closed at 11.10 a.m. )
Resumption of the session
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday , 18 February 2000 .
Statement by the President
The same day , I conveyed my own and the European Parliament ' s deepest sympathy and sincere condolences to the victims ' families .
These men paid with their lives for their commitment to democracy .
I utterly condemn this act of barbarism that is unworthy of any civilised society .
The rule of law and the respect of rights and fundamental freedoms are the principles on which the European Union is based .
Terrorism , whatever form it takes , is unacceptable .
In expressing the hope that these men will be the last victims of ETA , I call on this organisation finally to cease resorting to violence and to use the democratic channels that exist in Spain .
I would ask you , ladies and gentlemen , to observe one minute ' s silence in memory of Fernando Buesa Blanco and Jorge Dez Elorza .
( The House rose and observed a minute ' s silence )
He was a member of the Basque regional parliament , spokesman for the Socialist Party in that parliament and also a former vice-president of the Basque regional government .
The following is a translated extract from his autobiography . ' We are in Europe .
In my grandparents ' time , it took several days to travel from Vitoria to Seville .
Now you can go from Vitoria to Copenhagen in 2 or 3 hours by plane .
Today , at the end of the 20th century , a single market is operating in Europe in which we will soon be using a single currency .
We can now travel much more easily than our grandparents could within Spain or even within the Basque Country .
We are building a vast European area which will firstly be linked economically and then politically .
This process may take a long time but it is unstoppable and , what is more , desirable .
The public still regard this as being a long way off but it is very real and should serve to make us question certain aspects of our current situation .
Everyone can be what they want to be because , if Ireland and Britain are both in the European Union , there is no point in killing each other for being Irish or British .
What difference does it make if the national level is no longer going to function ? "
We in the Basque Country could ask ourselves the same question . Does it really matter if we are Basque or Spanish or European ?
We have talked a lot about what it is to be Basque , but a Basque today dresses like a Dane and reads the same things as a British person .
What difference does it make to be Basque ? Surely it is all the same thing .
May he rest in peace .
( Loud applause )
In recent times , in this House , we have sadly had to discuss the various faces of extremism in Europe .
It does not matter what banner these come under because , in the end , they are all different expressions of the same thing .
( Loud applause )
ETA must be condemned . However , those who support and express understanding for these attacks must also be condemned .
There is no point continuing to ask these people and organisations to go down the democratic road .
We must appeal to the whole of society and particularly to the democratic parties , whether they are national or nationalist , and no matter how pro- or anti-European they are .
It is regrettable that there are organisations and people who are saying nothing or simply regretting the deaths as if they were the result of a road traffic accident .
All European democrats in this House must join together to send a message to the Basque Country that it is time to put an end to the division and killing .
It is time to share the Basque Country , Spain and Europe .
This , Madam President , is the only way forward which we therefore fully support .
Madam President , on behalf of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group , I would like to express our sorrow for the victims and our rejection of terrorism and those who defend it .
So , Madam President , maybe we should consider taking some action if we want our sorrow and our rejection of terrorism to have any actual significance .
Why does Parliament not meet in all the countries of the European Union and show that it rejects terrorism ?
Let us make ourselves heard !
We are not just confined to Brussels or Strasbourg .
Let us all go back to our respective nations and shout from the rooftops that our belief in democracy and our indignation are not just words , but a demonstration of our actual political commitment .
Secondly , we send our deepest condolences to their families , their socialist colleagues , the Basque parliament and the Basque police force . We also want to express our solidarity and heartfelt sympathy .
Fourthly , we express our repulsion at the fact that this dual assassination was intended to directly destroy the political process aimed at achieving peace in the Basque Country .
Just three months ago I took the floor in this House to congratulate the Irish and British people on their success in reaching the Northern Ireland settlement , as many other colleagues did .
In Northern Ireland in the last thirty years too many people have been killed and injured - too many families shattered .
So far , unfortunately , in Spain and France , just the opposite has been happening as regards the on-going conflict in the Basque country .
We , Euskal Herritarrok , are convinced that a definitive solution to the present struggle can only be found through an open process of dialogue and negotiation with no limited agenda .
Before 20 January last , during nineteen months , the only killing we witnessed in the Kingdom of Spain was that of Jos Luis Geresta , member of ETA , in March 1999 .
In spite of that and the arrests made by the Spanish and French police , including arrests of ETA negotiators with the Spanish government ' s agreement , ETA honoured its unilateral ceasefire .
We , Euskal Herritarrok , have regretted many times the loss of human lives .
We share with all the Basque citizens the sufferings of our people .
We are committed to dialogue and ready to work together with all those eager to find a democratic settlement for the Basque country .
Twenty years have passed since the Northern Ireland question was first raised in this Parliament .
May I ask : Quousque tandem - Noiz arte ?
Madam President , thank you for giving me the floor .
I must say that it is very hard for me to follow on from the last intervention .
When Mr Puerta mentioned some of ETA ' s victims , he made no reference to someone who was killed by ETA 16 years ago . I believe he did this out of respect for me .
The person I am talking about was a socialist senator who was also a member of the Basque regional parliament . His name was Enrique Casas .
( Loud applause )
Madam President , Senator Casas was my husband .
I was left a widow with four children , the youngest of whom was only eight months old . My husband was an Andalusian by birth and a senator for the Basque Country .
This was the only time I had spoken of my husband ' s death but I must do so again today and I do it willingly .
Madam President , I was born in Germany , educated in Sweden and married to a Spaniard .
I know what democracy is because I had the good fortune to grow up in a country like Sweden which has a long democratic tradition .
As for the other problems , we can talk about these .
( Loud and sustained applause )
We democrats can solve the other problems by allowing everyone to put forward their ideas , because freedom of expression , free elections and freedom in general do exist in the Basque Country .
The only restriction on this freedom is ETA which must therefore be eliminated .
Then we democrats can talk .
( Loud applause )
Thank you , Mrs Dhrkop Dhrkop , I should like to assure you of my empathy and sincere respect .
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of the previous sitting have been distributed .
Are there any comments ?
You promised Parliament you would raise this subject with the Quaestors that very evening .
But we shall have a decision very soon .
( The Minutes were adopted )
Reforming the Commission
The next item is the Commission statement on Reforming the European Commission .
I shall give the floor straight away to the President , Mr Romano Prodi .
- ( IT ) Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , last July , here in your presence , I made a solemn commitment to reform the Commission .
I would just like to take a moment to recall the events of last July : the outgoing Commission had been in crisis , I had just been nominated and you gave your preliminary approval of that nomination .
The climax of the chain of events was my undertaking to reform the Commission , to reform it thoroughly , completely revolutionising the Commission ' s way of working .
Today , that commitment has been fully discharged : you have the reform here , before you , in the form of an institutional White Paper which has just been adopted by the Commission .
I would like to emphasise that , on that occasion too , the Commission voted unanimously , with one voice .
Briefly , these are the main points of the reform .
One : definition of political priorities and translation of these into practical measures through the focused use of resources .
In this context , activity-based management is the key to ensuring coherence between objectives , actions and resources .
The second point is human resources .
It is the central part of our reform . Our staff are the Commission ' s best asset , its richest resource .
They are extremely highly qualified , of a calibre which it is difficult , if not impossible , to find in the individual national administrations because of the nature of the recruitment methods and criteria used .
This was the impression I received when I first became President of the Commission , and it has been confirmed by observation during my daily work .
All this has to change , and this is one of the main reasons for our reform .
These are the areas in which changes will be made .
The third point , which was also rather a sensitive , key issue in the recent crisis , is financial management .
This is the hub of the administration which has to ensure efficiency and security .
We are going to create a management and control system in every Directorate-General .
This is a complete revolution of the Commission ' s way of working ; it is a totally different method of organisation and it will require a totally different way of thinking .
In fact , the Commission desires this reform in order to become a model of excellence for the whole of Europe and the world .
We also want to be exemplary in our advanced use of information technology .
We want to be a model of a completely computerised administration .
This is not just a technical revolution , but a complete organisational revolution as well .
We would both like to thank all those who have worked on the project and all the Commission staff , who took part in the broadest debate ever organised at the Commission .
I would stress that this style of debate is something very new and , in my opinion , it has forced us to radically change our way of thinking as well .
The adoption of the White Paper marks the end of a chapter of history - and I hope that it will remain closed forever .
Now we can focus on the future , on the challenges awaiting the Union and on the programme for 2000-2005 , the contents of which we have outlined to you over the past few weeks .
The very political essence of the reform is mirrored in the objectives of this five-year plan .
We need - the whole Union needs - a strong Commission , a Commission which has regained its ability to act as a political entity and is recognisable as such in all its actions .
This is why we are redefining all our work priorities .
This is why we are offloading all the activities which it is no longer appropriate for us to carry out - another important area of reform - in accordance with a principle of decentralisation and subsidiarity .
For this reason , we are reforming the administrative machinery in order to create the necessary conditions for us to be able to carry out our work efficiently .
We will make the best use of the resources at the Commission ' s disposal , but they are very limited and we have almost exhausted them .
We may need to come back to you and ask for additional resources to fund the new tasks which have been assigned to us and those which will be assigned to us in the future .
In September , we undertook to present a White Paper on reform , and today we are fulfilling that undertaking according to the conditions established in your presence .
The Commission wishes to be judged on results and results alone - on what we achieve .
I would , however , remind you , and this is my final point , that the Commission is not the only Community institution .
Parliament and the Council are also called upon to take up all the challenges presented by these reforms .
I am glad to be here together with President Prodi and my colleague , Michele Schreyer , to present the White Paper adopted by the Commission this morning : " Reforming the Commission " .
Together with Romano Prodi , I express my gratitude to this House and to the very large number of people who have put time and effort into giving us their constructive responses .
The White Paper puts reform in its proper political context .
In the Commission , systems and structures have built up over forty years in which successive enlargements have occurred .
The sustained independence and strength of the Commission are , of course , basic to that mission as this House has repeatedly recognised .
Reform and renewal are essential for that purpose too .
The Commission is not and will not be a secretariat of any kind , and that is clear to all of the institutions - it is well understood everywhere .
But the Commission does exist to serve the Union and its peoples with high standards of performance .
That is what the public has the right to expect and it is what the people who work for the Commission want to provide and will provide .
The House will be aware , of course , that the Commission cannot fulfil these objectives alone .
All institutions in the European Union will have to face up to the issues posed by the reform and face up to them honestly and responsibly .
I know that my colleagues and I can count on the support of many Members of this House across the spectrum .
One of the biggest challenges that may come from the essential efforts to match the tasks of the Commission with the resources of the Commission will confront this House .
Last month , as Romano Prodi has just said , we launched a thorough evaluation of activities and resources throughout the Commission and we will fully report on that in September .
Our aim is to focus the Commission on essential policy priorities and on core activities in line with our strategic policy objectives for the next five years .
Inevitably , that will mean identifying activities that could and should be reduced or ended .
It means taking a very hard look at how the use of internal and external resources can be most effectively balanced in the interest of the Union .
It means allocating staff to areas of high-policy importance within departments and across the Commission .
And when that assessment is complete , we will be able to establish whether the resources at our disposal are commensurate with the tasks attributed to us .
If they are proven not to be , we will put the case for more resources to the budgetary authority .
That means closing any significant gap between obligations and operational resources either by reducing activities or by increasing means or by a combination of both .
In each of the three pillars of reform , the active support and cooperation of this House will be absolutely vital .
The new activity-based management system , that the President just mentioned , will link political priorities to the availability of resources and consequently to the budget for the first time .
The role of the budgetary authority in the operation of ABM will , therefore , be vital .
Attempts to micro-manage the Commission ' s operations are clearly in no one ' s interest .
A resilient and practical interinstitutional agreement will , therefore , be a prerequisite for the efficient operation of activity-based management .
In human resources policy , the involvement of Parliament will unavoidably have to be as an employer of civil servants as well as a democratic institution to which the Commission is accountable .
Again , that will be a very demanding challenge .
In the limited time available for this statement , it is obviously impossible to go into the full details of our proposals .
I have no doubt that we will do that on several occasions in the coming months and years , and I certainly look forward to the questions of honourable Members this afternoon .
It is clear , of course , that in many ways the really hard work starts now , with the implementation of our proposals .
Thank you , Commissioner Kinnock .
We shall now move on to Question Time .
Madam President , the Commission proposals include the waiver of immunity of officials .
Recently , the immunity of a former Commissioner was lifted and proceedings are currently pending before a judge in Brussels on the basis that Brussels is the seat of the Community institutions .
There is effective legal precaution .
That will form part of the work that we will have to do and I sure that all of you today will want to engage in that process .
Now there were two points I wanted to pick up with Mr Kinnock , if I may .
The first one concerns the timescale of these important reforms .
Mr Prodi said in his very important opening statement that he had identified severe problems in the Commission about low morale and low motivation , and clearly that is a major concern .
Big expectations are built up for these reforms both within the Commission and outside .
I suggest that is too long , and we really must move forward much more quickly than that .
The second point that I want to make concerns information technology .
Have you really taken into account the changes in staff structure that new information technology will bring about , because those will be fundamental in the new direction of these reforms .
Cultures are products of structures and systems , and the structures and systems have become old .
I would like to make one last point in answer to Mr Harbour .
I share his impatience to secure the full implementation of the mechanisms of reform and change practices .
I do not use those as an excuse .
I would like everything to happen much more quickly . It is better to do it absolutely properly .
Madam President , we admire Mr Kinnock ' s vision and sense of realism .
For he is holding up visions of a well-oiled and effective administration and is , at the same time , drawing our attention to the difficulties which will arise and which can already be anticipated .
Mr Prodi has pointed out that he would like to give up a few of his responsibilities .
We will therefore need to focus on policy priorities first .
I think it is more important to bring into focus what we want to achieve before we give up responsibilities , because I can imagine we could meet with a great deal of protest otherwise .
Enlargement - that is enlargement of the Union - is one of the key challenges in this context .
I would also like to point out that when it comes to keeping the peace , it will require a much greater effort to get a great many more people on board .
We must resolutely switch from our present , rather bureaucratic approach which we are all familiar with - it pervades our development cooperation for example - to a cooperation for peace .
Could Mr Kinnock say what timeframe he is expecting the Council and Parliament to come up with for these priorities ?
I am grateful to Mrs Maes for not only the comments that she has made now but the sustained commitment that she has shown to change ever since she came into this House .
I do believe that reform with all it implies , including the new mechanisms , will very strongly facilitate changes of that kind .
Two questions if I may .
We anticipate , if I understand correctly , a report in September on core activities .
Let the managers manage .
So far as the September communication is concerned , it is unprecedented .
That is a sensible forecast to make , it is not an ambition that we have but it is a possibility that we may have to entertain .
I think that the end of the centralised system will certainly not result in any relaxation of effective financial control but will increase its effectiveness and its relationship to operational tasks .
Financial control will be absolutely secured , both because of the way in which we will introduce the changes , and because we will introduce a completely professional , independent internal audit service .
As I said earlier , our ambition is total security for money and value for money .
We are also interested in value for the people who work for us .
The changes in financial management and control will greatly enhance the possibility of doing all of that .
I hope that she will come to take pride in the child for which she has at least part parentage .
There is a degree of independence obviously allocated to the current Financial Controller by the financial regulation .
So , the changes that we seek to make - as I say consistent with the very strong and clear recommendations of the Committee of Independent Experts - are not negative in any way at all .
Coherence , consistency and universally good standards in a decentralised system of financial control are guaranteed by a series of measures .
If that is felt in a Directorate-General to be a relevant and effective way of enhancing financial control , the ex ante system can be used .
Naturally , there are diverse requirements across the Commission depending on the number and nature of the financial transactions in which particular Directorates-General have to engage .
Account is taken of that too in the White Paper but where there is a desire and a demonstrated need for the use of such a system , it most certainly can be used .
Lastly on transition , I share the reservations of Mrs Theato over so-called " soft law " .
There are absolute assurances of that and provisions made for it in the White Paper .
Two other points I must make , because this is an essential question central to reform .
The first one is that people feel - for reasons I well understand - that in that transition there is a danger either of irresponsibility or of inertia .
Irresponsibility because the feeling exists in some quarters that there will not be sufficient control and discipline .
I completely reject that simply because of the standards of Commission officials , the responsibility of directors-general and the assurances that we have built into the system .
Inertia would only be born of anxiety and we are doing everything we can in terms of support and training to diminish the possibility of that occurring .
Lastly , the system we currently have - as the Committee of Independent Experts asserted very strongly - is now unsustainable .
Indeed the Court of Auditors has called it fiction .
Madam President , great importance has been attached to the reform process , which deserves to be acknowledged , although this may be somewhat premature .
My question is this : there is a need for reform , due not least to the accession of new countries , and thus to the enlargement of the Union .
How can we - the Commission , Parliament and also the national parliaments of the applicant countries - meet this challenge more effectively , taking into account the ideas and considerations of the applicant countries ?
The delegations are actively engaged - as am I in my delegation for relations with the Czech Republic - but it is clear that there is often a pronounced schoolmasterish tone to our dealings with one another .
How can the reform process help make the relationship and cooperation between the European Parliament , the national parliaments and also the Commission , and the work they perform together , more effective ?
It is essential that we have that reform , both for the sake of the current Union , and certainly to facilitate accessions .
We are doing it in order to try to explain in the fullest terms the system into which they will be entering .
That is the level of sophistication and provision I would like to see .
All I can do now is to promise to strive for it .
Can I start by wishing the Commissioner a very happy St David ' s Day .
Thank you for the presentation .
It is important that the Commission never loses sight of the fact that the reform process will be a complete waste of time unless it reconnects with the European public .
That really has to be the sharp focus the whole time .
Excessive paperwork . Is there a reference to cutting down paperwork and bureaucracy for applicants to European funding whilst ensuring financial control ?
That is a clear complaint that we get . That needs to be addressed .
The other question I would like to ask is on the audit progress committee .
This , of course , is welcome , but it is essential it include a reference to the monitoring of recommendations that come from the European Parliament within our discharge procedure .
Will you be adding that into your audit progress committee ' s work ?
The mission of reconnecting with the European public is critical as Mrs Morgan says and that can only be done on the basis of action not words .
I say that with some deference in the European Parliament where there are so many experts in words , but we will try to lead by example .
As far as excessive paper is concerned , the dilemma is spelt out by Mrs Morgan .
We shall certainly strive in order to do that and I think that the effect over the next few years will start to become apparent .
I know I can rely on everyone here .
That concludes Question Time .
I should like to thank President Prodi and Commissioner Kinnock .
Statement by the High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy
The next item is the statement by the High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy .
Please give a very warm welcome to Mr Javier Solana to whom I shall hand over without further delay .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , it is a great pleasure for me to appear before you again , here in the European Parliament .
Much has happened since the last time I was here to talk about foreign and security policy issues in our continent .
Sometimes we may feel that too much has happened .
This afternoon I should like to share with you some ideas , particularly on the Common Foreign and Security Policy .
These are the opening of the Intergovernmental Conference and the starting of negotiations with the future members of the European Union .
However , I realise that you asked me here to talk to you more specifically about foreign policy and particularly security policy in Europe since Helsinki .
I will speak of this briefly . If you wish to ask questions at the appropriate time , I will be pleased to answer them .
The Helsinki Summit under the Finnish presidency took place a little over two months ago .
Decisions were taken at this summit which are fundamental for foreign and security policy in our continent .
These were essentially of three types which I will describe .
I will restrict myself to these three points in order to bring you up to date with events .
Therefore , two months after the Helsinki declaration and decision , a Political and Security Committee meeting has taken place for the first time within the European Union .
I was able to attend this meeting this morning and met with the representatives at lunch .
You can be satisfied with the progress made .
The fifteen countries have appointed diplomatic experts at ambassador level in order to tackle one of the most important issues which we will face in the coming months .
Secondly , the Military Committee , which represents the various Chiefs of Staff of the fifteen countries , will hold its first meeting on 7 March which will be just over two months after the Helsinki declaration .
This Military Committee , as you can imagine , will have various duties .
This crisis management will not be a strictly military affair but the military representatives and the Military Committee will be responsible for advising on the logistics of any humanitarian operations which may require the involvement of military forces .
Mozambique is surely an excellent current example of how intervention may be required in terms of military logistics , not for military purposes , but with strictly humanitarian ends .
Few initiatives within the European Union can have been progressed with such determination , drive and commitment as has been achieved in crisis management since Helsinki .
In less than two months we have established the mechanics for cooperation with the Commission .
I will now move on to the second issue which I should like to discuss with you .
We have already looked at the bodies which we have set up but we also have a fundamental obligation in terms of our credibility .
The proposed timetable is tight but essential and will require great determination from all of us , including this House .
I will set this out in five points .
Before 24 March we will therefore have established this timetable so that the General Affairs Council can , on this date , do its job and do it well .
Secondly , we must look at the capacity which each country has so that this total force of 60 000 soldiers is distributed in an orderly and efficient manner between the fifteen countries .
Thirdly , we must look at the differences between the Headline Goal and what each country can provide .
We may not have enough between the fifteen countries which will have to make an additional effort to meet the proposed needs .
How can we do this ?
This is what we are doing and we are committed to this .
I would like to say that in the meantime there will be at least four European Councils , those in Lisbon and Feira and two during the French presidency .
Madam President , we are therefore working on this issue with determination , energy and the full support of all the governments and all the Heads of Government .
I have two further points to make on this process .
The European Union must carry out this whole operation in collaboration with the third countries to which I have referred which , although geographically in Europe , are not members of the European Union .
We have to work with these countries and involve them so that if such a crisis arises , which I hope will not be the case , all forces and all countries will be more than welcome .
Secondly , we have to be able to establish a smooth and transparent relationship with NATO .
The operations to be carried out in the future will be of three types .
The first type will be operations in which European forces are involved within the framework of NATO .
The second will be operations involving European forces and directed by them , but using the means and infrastructure of NATO .
The third will be operations in which the European forces act alone .
However , we must not forget that these crisis operations must be tackled from a civilian front as well .
As far as possible , we are also providing or trying to provide solutions to any humanitarian crises and public order crises such as those which are currently unfortunately occurring in Kosovo and the Balkans .
We are working in this direction with the Commission and Commissioner Patten .
On Saturday morning I will meet with all the Ministers for Home Affairs of the fifteen Member States to try and make them see the need to mobilise a police force as well .
In this respect we are also working closely and positively with the Commission .
I am not going to say much more on these issues .
However , I would prefer , Madam President , to stop at this point and allow questions to be asked so that I have time to answer them .
However , before this happens , I must tell you about a telephone conversation which I had a few hours ago with the Council of Europe representative on the subject of Chechnya .
The situation in the refugee camps in Ingushetia is poor and deteriorating .
In most cases there is no hot food during the day as the Russian authorities are failing to provide this and are leaving this work to the non-governmental organisations .
In Grozny , there are now approximately 20 000 people in a desperate situation who have to walk miles and miles to get something to eat .
Yet there is one positive point which I must share with you .
Madam President , this brings me to the end of my speech .
I would just like to repeat what I said at the beginning .
Europe does not want to make war anywhere but rather to cooperate so that peace and stability can be achieved throughout the world .
Thank you very much indeed , Mr Solana . I shall now give the floor to Mr Poettering , on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats .
Thank you , Mr Poettering .
Mr Poettering , it goes without saying that Commissioner Patten ' s participation in this debate is most opportune , and we have agreed that I will allow him to speak when he so wishes .
Commissioner , would you like to speak now or a little later ?
( The Commissioner indicated that he would speak later ) Very well , thank you .
Madam President , Commissioner Patten , Mr Javier Solana , usted no es una persona loca , todo lo contrario ( you are not mad , quite the opposite ) .
We are delighted about the rapid progress which has been made following the Helsinki Summit .
We know that you have an important role in this .
I am also very pleased that you have mentioned Mozambique today , and in this context , and that a major humanitarian effort can be made using the resources in question .
We cannot , of course , talk about foreign policy without mentioning Chechnya .
My friend Jacques Poos will be talking about this on behalf of my Group .
I want to concentrate on Kosovo .
It is now quite clear that the situation in Kosovo shows that a lasting solution to the crisis there cannot be provided by military means .
The KFOR forces have made , and are making , an invaluable contribution , but tanks and fire trenches cannot deal with political problems and ethnic conflicts in the longer term .
It has now reached the point where the Pentagon has prohibited American forces from returning to northern Mitrovica .
They have now been replaced by robust Danish , Finnish and Swedish troops .
It is easy to despair in the face of the violence and the hatred , but it is important for the sake of Kosovo , the Balkans and Europe that we do not fail .
Through the Stability Pact , we have taken major steps which place us under an obligation .
This is therefore a test of credibility for the Union ' s common foreign and security policy .
At the moment , there is a huge shortage of suitable personnel in Kosovo .
Last autumn , we already heard Mr Bernard Kouchner call for a civilian police force .
I am now delighted to hear that , this weekend , Mr Javier Solana is to call the interior ministers together to discuss the question of policing .
I hope that this discussion will , in the first place , concentrate upon Kosovo so that the desperate situation there might be remedied .
The situation in Kosovo has taught us a lot , for example that we should provide ourselves with a military capacity for crisis management , an idea which has already been translated into practical action .
Another , at least as important , lesson of our experience , however , is that it is better to prevent a crisis than to have to take emergency action subsequently .
Therefore , the EU must also have an independent , credible conflict-prevention capacity .
On behalf of the Commission , Commissioner Patten has taken a number of praiseworthy initiatives in this direction .
I am thinking of the proposal to set up a rapid reaction facility and a rapid reaction force for non-military operations and to introduce headline goals for non-military operations , together with a Commission Crisis Centre .
My last question to Mr Solana is this : what concrete preparations are being made for conflict prevention of this kind ?
How have these been organised by Mr Solana ' s office and how has the initiative been coordinated with the Commission ?
I am thinking partly of the forthcoming and important humanitarian , peace-keeping and peace-making tasks .
Such a split would only delight the despots and rogue States which threaten freedom and human rights .
I believe you heard the concerns which some members of the American Congress expressed last week here in Parliament .
You must lay these concerns to rest for , as you yourself have said , when we are able to present a united transatlantic front , we are in a position to do something .
When we are divided , we are weakened , and the suffering of the oppressed is prolonged .
So , maintain as close contact as possible with our American allies and do not forget Norway , Turkey and Canada , either .
You also share a heavy degree of responsibility for ensuring that we do not end up as paper tigers .
As George Robertson has said so often , we have two million soldiers but could not even put 40 000 soldiers into Kosovo .
It may have been our weakness and lack of credibility which led to the war .
Diplomatic pressure is only successful when it is backed up by credible economic and military threats .
Everything else is wishful thinking .
That is why the Member States must either authorise more expenditure or rearrange their priorities in favour of modern mobile units so that our soldiers are protected by the best equipment .
We are therefore delighted about the decisions which were taken last Monday in Sintra .
The third heavy burden on your shoulders is the responsibility for ensuring parliamentary scrutiny .
This should be exercised first and foremost in the Member States .
No soldier can , of course , be despatched without the approval of the relevant national parliament .
It is therefore wrong for people to talk about a European army .
It will be a force comprised of various national units .
What is new is that it will be well prepared and able to act quickly under effective common leadership and using modern equipment .
However , there is , of course , also room for a certain amount of parliamentary scrutiny and control by the European Parliament .
As someone who both speaks and listens , we are glad to see you as a frequent guest both here in plenary and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs , Human Rights , Common Security and Defence Policy .
Finally , I should like to join you in expressing my pleasure at the incredible unity and speed with which this new form of cooperation is being set in motion .
Yesterday , a few of us met the Portuguese Defence Minister .
He was just as pleased and pleasantly surprised as yourself at the fact that it had been possible to agree about so much .
Bear in mind that there are also non-aligned countries at the negotiating table .
We share your delight , as long as we do not race ahead so quickly that transatlantic cooperation is impaired .
Mr President , Mr Solana , we are all behaving like children .
You are building castles in the air and your route map up to the year 2003 calls for 60 000 soldiers .
It is extraordinary what decisions we took in Sintra concerning 2004 , 2005 , 2006 .
But what about Kosovo in the year 2000 ?
You have spoken to Mr Gil-Robles . I have received an e-mail from a former colleague , Pierre Pradier , who is in Pristina at the moment .
He tells the story of a Serbian doctor who has just been murdered in Pristina .
He treated Roma , Albanians and Serbs and that is something unforgivable in Kosovo .
A man with three children and he was murdered .
We need policemen in Kosovo right now !
We need soldiers who do not have a doctrine to put into practice .
I am not a warmonger , but if we do not have soldiers to stop the criminals in Kosovo , then what is the point in having soldiers at all ?
People may have to risk their lives in Kosovo , but that is the price of freedom at the moment .
If we allow what is happening today in Kosovo to continue - border provocation , Serbian provocation , Albanian provocation , etc. we are heading for war .
Tell me , what civilian forces are being mobilised , Mr Patten ?
Mr Poettering is right - when he is right you have to tell him so .
He is not always right , but in this case he is .
I am in favour of a hardline policy against Austria , but we shall then have a responsibility towards Russia .
I do not like foreign ministers who say nothing - whether they are German and from my party , whether they are French from the broad left or whether they are Italians from any party !
In the current situation , we should say to the Russians " If you want money , if you want us to reduce your debts , you must allow a civilian peacekeeping force into Russia " .
If not , we are not prepared to pay for their war , since , by reducing the debt , by giving them money , we are paying their soldiers to carry out the massacres .
We are accomplices in the massacres in Chechnya if we continue to give money to the butchers .
It is not enough just to say , " You , the murderers , please stop the slaughter ! "
They know full well that they should not commit these acts .
Do you think that Mr Putin does not know that what he is doing in Chechnya is not good ?
But that is his strategy , he instigated this war .
From the beginning , he wanted this war in order to become president .
So that is the world as it is today .
For that reason I say to you : my Group is not entirely in agreement , but I am in favour of European defence .
I believe that European defence should be scrutinised by the European Parliament and by the national parliaments .
First of all , the European Parliament must give the green light to something and then the national parliaments will decide whether or not to send their soldiers .
As long as we do not have a balance between the military and the civilian elements , we shall not be credible .
Mr President , Mr Solana , we are very uneasy about replying to you because , in our view , you are responsible for an area that does not really exist .
In the lyrical mode of illusion and evasion that they are so fond of , at Sintra , the Fifteen decided to equip themselves with an action force that is ' pretentiously ' called autonomous .
What interests will this so-called force defend , in view of the fact that the countries of Europe do not have the same interests ?
Let us just consider for a moment . What is the basis of armed action ?
It is the defence of a territory , the protection of a country and in general of interests considered to be vital ?
In short , what purpose can an armed force have in the absence of any policy ?
A foreign policy presupposes that one has a clear definition of oneself and of one ' s own interests .
But the CFSP will never be anything else other than a cover for the national interests that already manage to dominate the system .
It is still the old imperial service .
You might have added , Mr Solana , ' to give me their instructions ' , because that is what we see , in fact .
In the case of the Balkans , just like everywhere else , one day the United States wants us to destroy the place and the next day they are asking us to rebuild it .
Yes , Jean-Claude Martinez was indeed right to interrupt you , Daniel Cohn-Bendit . In every case , it is follow-my-leader syndrome .
Do you think I am going over the top ?
Every day the news brings more proof of our subservience .
Echelon is one of many examples of this , giving an image of Europe that is quite different to the one we like to envisage here .
The experts speak of a cultural problem , I think they might be right !
On behalf of the combined European right , I must say to you , Mr Solana , as High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy , we do not have confidence in you .
You say that you are against war , but as Secretary-General of NATO you started a war .
Today , even Mr Cohn-Bendit - and that is saying something - can gauge the results of the disastrous policy that he so wished for .
We also have several questions to ask you that show our concern , that is the least one can say .
Secondly , if you do recognise this right , then what standards of international law and political morality are you going to base your decisions on ?
I can already hear your reply : humanitarian standards .
In Kosovo , it was for humanitarian reasons that we systematically destroyed all the civilian infrastructure in Serbia .
When the US killed 2 000 people in Panama , it was not to impose their politics , it was to combat drug trafficking .
When they landed in Somalia , before having to withdraw in disarray , it was not to guarantee their takeover of the oil route , it was to restore hope .
' Restore hope ' , do you remember ?
In a nutshell , can you not see that nowadays all these evil deeds are committed for humanitarian reasons .
Finally , you spoke about using the great resources of crisis management .
Not to make war , of course , but to protect peace .
But these are always the words that those who conduct preventative wars use to justify their actions .
Mr Solana , these questions convey our concern .
You say that you are against war , but you would not be the first warmonger to swear that .
May God spare us the disastrous consequences of the bombastic principles that you have just put forward .
Mr President , it goes without saying that the development of a European security and defence identity will have a huge impact on the three countries which joined NATO last year : Poland , the Czech Republic and Hungary .
As candidate countries of the European Union , they therefore wish to fully participate in this interesting initiative from the very beginning , that is to say as of now .
This request , however , was not honoured by the Council at its Helsinki Summit at the end of last year .
In the Finnish capital only vague pledges were made regarding consultation and cooperation .
This is why I would like to ask the High Representative , Mr Solana , to what extent Prague , Warsaw and Budapest are , or will be , involved in European military crisis management plans .
Given Poland ' s rather critical stance , this question is all the more pressing .
Its reservation is captured in the following , rather blunt wording : avoid American isolationism and European separatism .
If anything , the European defence identity should serve to strengthen NATO " .
We all very much share this opinion .
Minister Geremek is certainly not the only leader among the new NATO Members from central and eastern Europe who feels excluded from this crucial process today .
The Czech Defence Minister , for example , shares this opinion . In the autumn of last year , the latter stated : " Security within Europe is not divisible .
It cannot be restricted to a small number of countries , with others only being allowed to observe or execute decisions " .
These opinions add substance to my question addressed to Mr Solana .
Poles only need five words for this : nothing about us without us !
What do the current EU Member States intend to do about this fair request submitted by candidate countries ?
Mr President , I too welcome the presence of the High Representative and his availability to answer Members ' questions this time round .
We should also acknowledge the efforts which Mr Solana is making towards achieving a more effective , visible and coherent Common Foreign and Security Policy for the European Union .
The Portuguese presidency has made great progress in establishing a series of provisional or interim bodies .
In record time it has organised this Informal Meeting of Defence Ministers and has highlighted a whole series of milestones on the long road towards this Common Foreign and Security Policy .
One of these milestones was the meeting in Sintra which I would like to ask Mr Solana about .
This meeting was based on two documents , one being a British document on the Headline Goals and the other a document on the permanent military bodies of the European Union .
Do you share this view or do you feel a more significant contribution is needed from the Member States in this respect ?
Mr Solana , as the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs , Human Rights , Common Security and Defence Policy , I shall limit my speech to those subjects .
You have , Mr Solana , heard the force of the criticisms made by the Members of Parliament who do not accept the appalling situations in Kosovo , Chechnya and elsewhere .
For my part , I do not wish to give up hope .
And today , as far as you are concerned , I acknowledge your efforts to build a European security and defence policy that is worthy of the name and which has not hitherto existed .
Indeed , we are still a long way from having achieved the desired objective , in any case , the objective that I wish to achieve .
I should like to take advantage of your presence here today to ask you two questions of the " what is to be done " variety .
The first concerns the forthcoming European Councils in June and December , without counting the extraordinary Council meeting in Lisbon .
What are the main priorities that you hope to achieve at the next summit meetings ?
And finally , what do you most need at these next summits ?
My second question is different , although it is not unconnected with the previous one .
It concerns the next IGC .
I believe that the Italian President of the Council mentioned this point at your meeting on 24 February .
Can you tell us your position on this subject ?
Mr President , Bosnia and Kosovo have shaken Europe .
At long last , the European Union realises that it cannot afford to always give the Americans the political and military initiative .
The decision to set up our own peace force is excellent .
However , if Europe wants to take military action at crucial times , the Treaty must include a flexibility clause .
Mr Solana can play an important role in this .
He is not stupid .
Certainly not !
He is a driven man , a competent man .
But the question remains as to whether this accumulation of responsibilities exceeds even his level of competence .
In addition to being Secretary-General of the Council , Mr Solana is also Secretary-General of the WEU , as well as High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy .
He also heads the Unity Policy Planning and the New Early Warning Unit .
One wonders whether he gets any time to sleep , Mr President .
His position threatens to eclipse that of Commissioner Patten , as has been illustrated again today , in fact .
It appears that , as European security and defence policy takes shape , the Commission and Parliament are increasingly being left out in the cold .
This too is unacceptable in my view .
Naturally , every attempt should be made to make European policy more efficient , but this should not lead to unwished-for concentrations of power .
Mr Solana must keep Europe awake without nodding off himself .
Mr President , peace is the European Union ' s very raison d ' tre .
I am pleased about the fact that Commissioner Patten and Mr Solana have already underlined this repeatedly .
We have also opted for a common and joint development along the road of democracy , cultural diversity and tolerance . But look at us now !
Some of them are our ACP partners .
The war is an extension of degenerated underdevelopment .
In Kosovo , we stepped in with military means , having been unable to prevent the war in ex-Yugoslavia .
We are now unable to guide the peace .
This is why Europe is not credible as a Union .
I do not believe , Mr Solana , that we can restore this credibility by military means .
At the moment , Europe does not have a foreign policy to speak of .
I can hardly believe that we will ever achieve this at intergovernmental level .
In my opinion , it is far too easy to sit down with the military and gather up all the military equipment , which are such nice toys , after all .
Because our borders do not stop at the Mediterranean Sea .
Mr President , allow me to start with the conquest of Kosovo .
Today , we are turning a blind eye to the involvement of NATO occupation forces in the savage ethnic cleansing of the Serbs and non-Albanian speaking minorities .
Mr Solana has confirmed our view that , in a militarised European Union , NATO will have the upper hand .
Commissioner , Mr Solana , there is no doubt that you are acting quickly and forcefully and that you have made great progress in certain areas .
I wonder , and here I do not entirely agree with the positive interpretations of a number of press bodies and fellow Members , about the direction in which we are going .
I think that contrary to the great process of Economic and Monetary Union , which was an integrated process within the Community structures , today , unfortunately , the common foreign and security policy is entirely an intergovernmental procedure .
We have taken fifteen years to achieve Economic and Monetary Union .
We can take fifteen years for the defence and security policy and foreign policy , but the process must be clear .
I also believe that we should not underestimate , and this is a question that I put to you , the stranglehold and the force of the lobbies of the foreign ministries .
We know the strength that they have acquired over these forty years of building the Community .
Today , they would have everything to lose from the communitarisation of foreign policy , and I believe that they are working with that in mind .
Finally , with regard to Kosovo - Mr Cohn-Bendit was right to emphasise this point - I believe that it is urgent that the European Union raise the question of the status of Kosovo .
Without this status , there will only be instability , murders , provocation by Belgrade and it is a matter of urgency that the European Union should come to a decision on this matter .
Finally , I should like to thank Mr Poettering because I believe that the Belgian initiatives , as we say in common parlance , are getting a bit much .
I think many Member States among the fourteen other Member States would have many reasons not to cooperate in European Union meetings on justice , for example .
Four years after the arrest of Mr Dutroux and his associates , we have still not had a trial , and we still do not know what is happening .
As far as tourism is concerned , there will be many people in these fourteen Member States who could consider discouraging parents of young children from taking holidays in Belgium , for example .
But I do wonder what his own view is on this .
According to the documents , cooperation with the High Representative was fruitful .
But do you not regret the fact that you do not preside over them yourself and are not their leading light ?
I - and I believe many with me in Parliament - would like you to be the driving force behind them and would not want you to run the risk of being sidelined to some extent .
One gets the impression in fact that they both think that the Petersberg tasks are ideally suited for inclusion in the EU defence policy in due course .
The Treaties also point in that direction , although they allow for a more general defence policy which ties in more with the traditional line of thought of incorporating our policy into a European pillar .
We would then have a voice in NATO through this European pillar .
Actually , I hear less and less about this .
It seems evident that they would do this in joint cooperation , which would work very well .
But is there not more to it than that ?
I cannot shake off the impression that in terms of defence policy , NATO ' s role is actually very much emphasised with regard to collective defence .
The European pillar does not really function any more as such .
Europe is not venturing beyond the Petersberg tasks .
Is this actually how we want things done ?
Moreover , whilst there may be talk of integrating the Western European Union into the European Union , there is no longer any mention of Article V , which is , of course , of direct concern to us .
Article V touches upon the wider defence tasks and not just Petersberg .
Will it be omitted ?
At the same time , an appeal has also been made in broad terms to increase the defence budgets .
I think that this is to be welcomed , but this appeal does not really distinguish very clearly between Petersberg tasks and wider , collective defence tasks .
I wonder how this will develop .
I would like to ask both gentlemen how they view the long-term future .
Is it necessary to give further attention to this during the IGC or will the Treaties inevitably set the ball rolling ?
I am pleased that this has opened a few matters up in relation to defence policy .
I do wonder , if Turkey were to bring in a brigade , would we also have to grant it codecision rights concerning that policy ?
The fabric of Turkey ' s government contains a few Haider-type personalities .
That would seem odd to me .
Secondly , the Baltic States are also knocking on our door .
Will they also take part in our defence policy ?
It is a very interesting position to be in , to say the least .
However , this increase in pace accentuates the lack of coordination between these decisions and the on-going Intergovernmental Conference even further .
A word of warning to the latter : this policy needs substantial democratic legitimisation .
Do you think that any of these issues could be included , at least in the agenda of the current Conference ?
Mr Solana , I am sitting quite close to you , close enough to see your face .
I think that you have aged , your face is quite lined .
You are Spanish ; you are from a large country , Mr Solana . Spain and Franco were not one and the same .
Today , you are identifying Yugoslavia with Milosevic and you are playing with Voivodina , with Montenegro and with southern Serbia . It is you who has created this mess .
I have two questions on this subject to which your knowledge of the subjects concerned and the parties involved should make it possible to provide enlightening replies for our further debates and our work .
My first question , Mr Solana , will be simple and more direct , perhaps , than those of my colleagues who have spoken before me .
You know the French proverb , ' Nothing for nothing ' .
My second question is of a more technical nature , but it is important for the responsibilities of the Atlantic Alliance and the Western European Union to be transferred to the European Union as harmoniously as possible .
You have told us , in this regard , that three committees are being set up , a political committee and a security committee , which started up today , and a military committee .
You then spoke of their relations with the third country members of the Atlantic Alliance or associate members of the Western European Union but which are not members of the European Union .
Could they , for example , have a place , at least as observers , in the different political and security committees or in the military committee ?
You know that they are concerned about the risk of being isolated and I should like to say that I understand their wish to participate with you in bringing this to a successful conclusion .
Thank you too for sharing with us your telephone conversation with Mr Gil-Robles .
This House is rather doubtful about this and I am not sure whether you share this doubt .
Could you give us an initial reaction to this initiative , without compromising the more detailed reaction which you may be able to give us in the Foreign Affairs Committee ?
Mr Solana , it has been said many times in this House that prevention is better than cure .
Of course it is , but there is no reason why Europe cannot equip itself with the means to intervene when prevention proves unsuccessful .
In any case , it is prevention that I would like to discuss today .
War is threatening to break out again in the Gulf .
If this happens , the United States ' Government and the British Government have given it to be understood that they will resort to military intervention .
As we sit here , hundreds of thousands of people are in enormous peril from the floods in Mozambique .
This has not just happened .
The flooding has been going for weeks , and yet only now it seems there is an assessment of need .
The level of practical assistance from the Community and from the Member States has been pathetic .
Of course , there is a relationship between military resources and humanitarian assistance , and there are serious military deficiencies in the armed forces of many European countries .
These are of long standing , but are being addressed already within NATO .
After all , the EU Member States are either full members of NATO or sit around the Euro Atlantic Partnership Council table .
NATO is largely European .
Now , what has happened and what is still happening in Chechnya is similar to genocide .
How can we describe the rapes , the looting , the deliberate fires , the deportations , which are called " cleansing " , that recall the worst episodes of the Middle Ages in Europe ?
And what can we say about the leaden shroud that is crashing down on Russian and international journalists and with the banishment of the humanitarian organisations and any international commission of inquiry at the sites of the massacres ?
The war in Chechnya proves , if proof were necessary , that the duty or the right to intervene stops at the borders of the great powers .
Let us therefore ensure that in future any euro spent in the Russian Federation is spent to alleviate the suffering of the people who are the victims of war , to the exclusion of any other objective .
Mr High Representative , you have spoken to us of the progress made to date in relation to the decisions taken at Helsinki .
Some of us here are passionately in favour of creating a distinctly European security organisation to defend peace in the world .
Of course we recognise the role of the Security Council , as the Helsinki resolutions clearly state , in maintaining international peace and security .
However , we note that you have said nothing to us about the fact that the role of the Security Council , as referred to at Helsinki , was contested recently .
The point is : does the political will exist to grant real administrative autonomy to this mechanism , which will cover the entire spectrum of Petersberg decisions ?
What about the infrastructures ?
Is there some sort of provision which will allow the system as a whole to have this administrative autonomy ?
Secondly , what will happen to the European defence industry which , after all , comes under the more general activities relating to this system ?
Will current programmes continue to be implemented ?
Finally , if the Treaty needs to be amended , how do you think this amendment will be implemented , following the report to be submitted in Feira ?
How will it be incorporated into the more general procedure for amending the institutional framework of the Treaty and how do you think this will fit in with the possibility of a system of qualified majority voting ?
Has any thought been given to the matter ?
Has it been discussed ?
And to what extent has collaboration between you and the relevant Commissioner brought about concrete results and created some sort of framework strategy as to how you and the Commissioner hope this system will prove truly efficient ?
I hope this is not an omen for this Sintra Agreement .
That said , I would like to congratulate the high representative on the progress that has been made so far .
We have all heard some of the tales emanating from the Council of Ministers building in Brussels .
To what extent are we going to get some form of convergence on defence expenditure , because some Member States spend considerably more than others .
And indeed , some Member States are not geared for mobility .
They are very static in their military forces , and unsuitable for this sort of warfare .
And finally , can I also endorse Mrs Schroedter ' s comments that we do need to have a Parliamentary dimension in this defence development .
We cannot leave it simply to governments .
I strongly support the decisions taken at Sintra . They constitute a significant step towards establishing an effective European Security and Defence Policy .
The creation of the interim structures and the plans that are now being put into place to provide the military capacity for achieving EU policy objectives are positive steps in the right direction .
The recognition that the 60 000 strong military force will be involved in both peacemaking and peacekeeping is also appropriate .
However , while all these developments are indeed welcome , I would like to address a matter which I have raised in this House on previous occasions .
I am anxious to know how effective the EU ' s policy planning and early warning unit has been .
While Commissioner Patten ' s statement later this evening on the unfolding tragedy in Mozambique will be opportune , I would like to know if the policy planning and early warning unit provided advance information .
I would also like to support Mr Titley ' s comments on an effective role for the Parliament in this whole area .
If we are to realise our ambitions in the field of foreign policy , then effective anticipation and preparation for all sorts of crises , particularly humanitarian ones , are essential prerequisites .
What we need are 60 000 civilian policemen and women in order to try and deal with these situations .
We have not heard any information from Mr Solana about what leverage is going to be used in relation to Russia and Chechnya .
We have not heard anything from Mr Solana about what diplomatic intervention he or the European Union is making in a serious way - serious diplomatic interventions - to stop the slaughter in Chechnya .
We have large gaps in what we are arguing for , in principle , in relation to human rights .
So , I would ask Mr Solana to explain to this House the position of the European Union in relation to Chechnya .
What are we going to do seriously to bring that appalling situation to an end ?
We have levers we can use with Russia if we choose to use them , but we are choosing not to use them .
Mr President , High Representative , Commissioner , I have two questions for you , Mr Solana .
Meetings are all very well , but it is the result that counts .
I also wonder what kind of plans you have to induce governments to ensure that a force of 60 000 troops becomes a reality and not merely figures on a piece of paper .
If we look around , the reality is that the CFSP is in danger of becoming nothing more than talk .
Take , for example , Germany ' s defence savings . These are not only of concern to the defence minister , Mr Scharping .
Instead , they also affect the whole of Europe . In my own country , Sweden , the objective , and the commitment towards playing our part , is to supply 2 500 men for EU operations .
In the present situation , the national defence can only supply approximately 1 500 men , due to reduced defence spending .
My second question concerns the following matter . Some weeks ago , you were evidently misquoted in the German-speaking media , whereupon your press service put out a statement correcting matters .
I am very grateful to have this opportunity of contributing to the debate on the statement made by the High Representative .
I would just like to say a word or two myself on that particular subject .
I spoke last week at the extremely interesting session that was organised between members of the NATO parliamentary assembly and Members of this Parliament .
This was particularly true with some of the American delegates who were there but one or two of the others as well .
I would just like to say a word about the non-military aspects of our security policy , of conflict prevention and crisis management .
Rightly , the concentration today has been on the military side but we have not forgotten about the non-military side either and Mozambique reminds us of the importance of remembering that .
We are establishing a Commission crisis centre as the operational interface with the situation centre in the high representative ' s policy unit .
It is , I repeat , breaking new ground but it is very important that we do it for a number of reasons and policing in Kosovo , policing elsewhere , is the most dramatic and obvious example .
It is not just the sort of policing that we identify with community policemen on the street corner .
I grew up as a kid hoping I would be allowed to stay up on Saturday evenings in order to see a television programme about a community policeman called Dixon of Dock Green .
I have just been writing a report before I came to this job , and writing a very good report , just to respond to my honourable friend , on policing in part of my own country .
I remember talking about community policing to some American police experts and saying ' What in your view is the ideal community police officer ' and the reply was ' a black grandmother ' .
But that sort of approach to policing alas is not what is required in Kosovo .
We have armed forces , we have all got experience of training community police officers .
What is actually needed in those circumstances is something between the armed forces and community policing .
We need somebody who has the ability to detect crime but who also has an enhanced ability to deal with really difficult public order situations as well .
That is the sort of thing that we have to develop in the European Union and we have to face up to the fact that there are resource consequences .
So again , rhetoric and reality .
Now Mr Titley referred to conflict prevention in the broadest sense and asked what intellectual contribution we were going to make to this debate .
But perhaps I could just say one or two things this afternoon .
I think there is an umbilical cord between neglecting human rights , between neglecting habeas corpus , between neglecting all the usual rules of good governance , between tyranny and between environmental degradation .
All those things come together .
So , in the coming months , we will be producing communications from the Commission , for example , which have a direct bearing on the whole question of preventing conflict or managing crises .
We will be producing a communication on anti-personnel landmines , actually the use of sensor equipment .
The work that has been done in dealing with landmines has been a success story in Mozambique .
They have managed to clear tracks from the villages to the wells , they have managed to clear tracks from villages to the primary schools .
What does one suppose has been the consequence of all that flooding over the last few days , moving those anti-personnel mines around ?
We are again going to have to go through the same sort of exercise .
What we have to be looking at is the way an issue like that connects with our policies elsewhere .
So the point I want to make is that all these things are intimately related .
Now , I hope that in facing those challenges we will have support which consists of adequate resources as well as spectacular rhetoric .
We all know that there are a number of reasons for the development of a common foreign and security policy and I will tell you three of them - Bosnia , Albania , Kosovo .
So the big test for us is going to be in the Balkans .
I would very much hope that we can all live on a planet which is also inhabited by the European Council , the General Affairs Council and Ecofin .
All on the same political planet together and making sure that there is some harmony between what we promised the world and what we can actually deliver .
I have heard promises that we will establish a stability pact in the southern Caucuses .
I have heard promises that we will secure democracy in Indonesia by giving more assistance to Indonesia
Where is the beef ?
And that is not a contribution to any recent political controversy .
That is the question that we have to address again and again in the coming weeks and months in my view .
I want us to be in a position in which we can say : ' It is not like that any more .
We are running things as efficiently and competently as we can ' .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Patten .
I would also like to thank you for allowing us to sample your British sense of humour in the course of our dealings with this very difficult issue , for it makes things a little more interesting .
Women in the decision-making process
The next item is the declarations by the Council and the Commission on women in the decision-making process .
Mr President , firstly I must thank Mrs Belm Roseira for taking part in this debate and for her interesting speech on the subject .
I must also thank the Commissioner for being here and for her words .
The various political groups generally agree on the easily verifiable observation that women are under-represented in the decision-making process , in both the political and the economic and social spheres .
We are convinced that the participation of women in the decision-making process will be beneficial to society as a whole .
The difficulty lies in finding the right solution to allow women to have a greater presence in positions of responsibility and therefore in decision making .
In some countries of the European Union a compulsory quota formula has been adopted which immediately produces a more equal presence of women .
Women are not participating in political parties and in the working and social world at a level of fifty per cent .
The real percentage is much lower and it is this participation at the grassroots which we must promote in order to ensure a greater presence of women .
There must also be a clear and real will to allow more women , who are ready and able , to assume responsibilities and commitments in political life and therefore in the decision-making process .
There is no clear agreement within the PPE-DE Group in support of the compulsory quota system .
Some Members have even come out against this .
Personally , I would not want to feel like a quota , to think that I was in a particular job because I was a woman .
This is a feeling which men will never have and it is an important difference .
I would also like to thank the Minister and the Commissioner for their statements and I agree with the Commissioner ' s statement ; it is time that fine words were translated into action .
We all know to what extent women are under-represented in decision making at all levels because we have the statistics and they speak for themselves .
I agree that accurate statistics too are essential because it is only when we see the figures changing that we will know we are beginning to overcome the problems .
It is systematic monitoring which will reveal this .
Mainstreaming is a long-term commitment and process .
In the meantime , we need positive action and this means the use of quotas and other measures .
If we believe in the principle of equal representation of women and men in decision making we need to commit ourselves to the actions that are necessary to make it happen .
It is also worth noting that International Women ' s Day has since been banned in all those countries in which fascism and racism came to power during and between the war years .
In 1910 , a woman ' s right to vote was on the agenda .
Today , we are focusing upon the ways in which more women might be able to participate in the decision-making process .
Women are no homogenous collective .
Women belong to different social classes . Women have different individual needs and interests .
In my own country , Sweden , a number of political parties have , in recent years , voluntarily introduced quota allocation by gender as a feature governing the ways in which political assemblies are constituted and run .
This has led to an increase in the number of women involved in political decision making which , in turn , has provided opportunities for further research .
What happens when more women take an active and equal part in political decision making ?
What has so far emerged is that the agenda has changed - and when the agenda changes , so too of course do the types of decisions made .
When the talk turns to quota allocation by gender , the word " qualifications " also crops up .
What is interesting is that the qualifications demanded are rarely defined .
It often looks as if men today , as in the past , always have the least defined qualifications .
Being a man therefore seems , in itself , to be synonymous with maximum competence .
This way of seeing things I consider to be proof of spectacular incompetence on the part of many of today ' s decision makers .
Earlier this year , we requested , here in this Chamber , that 8 March be made into an international holiday .
This is a world-wide activity which will focus upon violence against women and female poverty throughout the world .
Finally , I want to say , as Commissioner Patten said when he drew the previous debate to a close , that the ideal police officer would be a black grandmother .
We do not have any such officers , but black grandmothers are in fact to be found .
Mr President , the place of women in politics is an important matter that is worthy of more than our trying to outbid each other in terms of political correctness .
Undoubtedly there are too few women involved in politics .
It is not absolutely certain that the predominance of men in the party machinery alone is responsible .
In France , 95 % of elected representatives are town councillors .
The vast majority of them are not members of any party .
In the authorities of the French departments , the leading French party is that of independent elected representatives , in right-wing or left-wing categories .
In order to be elected as a local councillor , you just have to want to be elected .
But access to national responsibilities often depends upon the introduction to politics provided by such local mandates .
Our Group wants to encourage the fair representation of men and women in the institutions of the European Union .
That is why we reject the policy of quotas and positive discrimination , whether it is in favour of women or supposed social minorities .
The policy of minorities , while neglecting the deep-seated unity of the human family , to establish superficial divisions , is a dangerous threat to the cohesion of the social fabric and the equilibrium of our democratic system .
On the one hand , if we establish quotas for women , why do we also not create quotas according to age or ethnic group , quotas of Catholics , of workers , of those who wear glasses .
The establishment of social quotas in favour of the very smallest categories would be no more ludicrous than establishing quotas of women .
With such a philosophy it would no longer be necessary to organise elections or administrative competitions .
It would be sufficient to determine the composition of the ministries and assemblies by means of a statistical calculation .
The policy of quotas can only increase the disaffection of the voters with regard to politics by once again giving them the feeling that everything takes place behind their backs .
On the other hand , such a policy shows a deep contempt for women .
A woman must not attain political or administrative responsibilities automatically thanks to the implementation of the quota but by having her own merits and skills recognised .
Ladies , have you so little pride that you would be prepared to hold a ministerial office or wear the sash of an elected representative by virtue of the mathematical odds of the quota ?
Women deserve more than a quota .
It is by reviving the principle of meritocracy that we shall improve in quantity and quality the presence of women in the decision-making process in quantity and quality .
I would like to thank the Minister and the Commissioner for their speeches and for committing themselves before the European Parliament on the crucial matter we are discussing today .
The presence of women in decision-making bodies , in particular , is a question of democracy .
All citizens , both men and women , should be able to see , to feel that they are genuinely represented by those they have elected and those who rule .
Out of a sample of women who work in and around Milan , where I live , 90 % said that they do not have enough time to do all they need to in a day .
Women work an average of 60 hours a week , which is 20 hours longer than men .
The price paid by women for following their desire to be protagonists in all spheres is that they never have enough time .
If this is true , and it is , any appropriate policy which aims to find positive solutions to these problems must start from this point .
Much has been achieved on many issues in Europe , but we are still far from resolving the question of equal representation .
Mr President , before I came here for today ' s sitting , I was watching Finnish television .
In Finland , an honorary company of the Finnish army was saluting the new President of the Republic , with the words " Good morning , Madam President . "
Finally , I would like to say that it is now essential that we also raise this issue at the Intergovernmental Conference .
I appeal to you , ladies and gentlemen , not to vote in favour of the proposal tomorrow to moderate the contents of point 4 , to prevent gender democracy from being discussed at the Intergovernmental Conference .
This means that we need to amend policies in various areas if we are to guarantee that women can participate on equal terms in the decision-making process .
The truth is that the scant participation of women in centres of political representation and decision making demonstrates a democratic deficit which is incompatible with genuine democracy .
It is quite logical , it is consistent !
So , there should be no positive discrimination to include women .
Woman are capable of getting themselves included because they are pragmatic and full of common sense .
When I see that we are asking for training for women in politics , I want to say - no , definitely not .
Let us impose training for male and female candidates in politics - but why especially compel women to undergo training ?
That simply amounts to acknowledging their inferiority .
But I do know that we have never felt inferior to men , particularly in politics .
We shall all have to be sufficiently strong to force our political leaders to voluntarily impose women ' s participation in the political decision-making process .
Mr President , Minister , Commissioner , " Women are half of heaven " , a successful man once said .
But when it comes to important decisions and priorities , there is a lack of women ' s voices .
Women , who constitute more than half of the population , are heavily under-represented within political , economic and social fields .
That is unacceptable in a democracy .
Where equality is concerned , the gulf between the actual and the ideal is nowhere more apparent than in the area of decision making .
If we are to achieve a balance , a concrete action plan with a definite timetable is required .
An important part of such a plan would be a benchmarking system to guarantee women ' s full participation in power structures and decision making .
I am therefore delighted that the Commissioner is well disposed towards a system of this kind .
The latter are consequently accorded low priority , and the perpetrators are often not prosecuted .
Women are the prime victims of armed conflicts but are under-represented in peace-keeping efforts , conflict resolution and reconstruction work .
In the resolution , we therefore urge the Member States to increase the proportion of women involved in all aspects of conflict resolution and peace-keeping .
Not to use women ' s talents in decision making is an unacceptable waste .
Women should not only be " half of heaven " but should also be entitled to take their share of responsibility for decisions which affect our entire planet .
Mr President , I would like to congratulate the President-in-Office of the Council and Commissioner Diamantopoulou on the excellent speeches they have made today .
We have high hopes for what you will achieve .
We are at the start of a millennium and a century which we hope will be decisive for women and for their opportunity to occupy decision-making positions .
In order to achieve this , women must be given the opportunity to combat the inertia of a society which has , until now , been essentially imbued with masculine values .
We know from our own experience that freedom and the ability to decide are not given freely but must be fought for .
Let us continue to fight and ensure that this century brings us victory : not over men , not over anyone , but the victory of equality between men and women .
We therefore cannot afford to miss any more opportunities , and the great challenge confronting all Europeans now , and particularly women , concerns the new economy and the new information technologies .
The Lisbon Summit to be held at the end of this month is very much geared towards women .
The rate of employment in Europe , which is much lower than in the United States and Japan , must be increased .
We must therefore have many more women in work , and working in the new jobs in which the EU has a shortfall .
Moreover , I have heard that for the next elections , it appears that very few women will feature on the electoral lists in Greece .
I think this is a very sad state of affairs .
I appreciate your courage because I think that it is high time that we in the European institutions started to offer concrete instruments to help put more women on the political agenda .
This is why I think it is important that this Parliament continues to press for quotas and that this is openly included in the resolution .
I myself , Commissioner , am a product of quotas .
I do not believe that any of the MEPs will be able to prove that I am any less competent as a result .
It appears that the meritocracy in a number of our European countries is still so biased in favour of males that women simply do not stand a chance .
It is true that a number of countries in the European Union have already introduced quotas , and you yourself made reference to Belgium , Commissioner , where it has not really taken off .
This is why we need to be sensible about applying quotas .
Indeed , Minister , we should strive for a democracy based on equal representation as a new social contract .
But we should draw the necessary conclusions from this .
The electoral system which corresponds most closely to this model is the one-for-one system , as is being applied in Sweden on a voluntary basis .
I would suggest the following : where possible , apply it on a voluntary basis , where there is reluctance , impose it .
Mr President , I too should like to congratulate the Commissioner and the President-in-Office of the Council for their solid recommendations and , above all , for their proposals .
In an article entitled " If women ruled the world " , he maintains that if women were more involved in politics , the world would certainly not be so wedded to violence .
Athena , the goddess of wisdom and war , may have been a female model in Ancient Greece , but the influence exercised by women today can act as a catalyst to stop militarisation and promote peace .
There are , therefore , serious grounds , over and above justice between the sexes , for distributing public offices and political and economic power fairly and evenly between men and women .
Women devote their entire lives to the endeavour to protect life and the environment through dialogue , reconciliation , an understanding of different views and resolving differences by peaceful means .
These female virtues can offer an alternative to today ' s culture of violence and institute a new political culture and a fairer and more prosperous society for everyone .
Mr President , why do women need their rightful share in political decision making ?
And how should we achieve this ?
We all agree on the fact that it needs to be done and why it is necessary .
It is a demand for simple justice and for democracy and , as such , a condition for political legitimacy .
But if we look into how to achieve this , the opinions are greatly divided .
Is it sufficient to provide information and training and to create practical conditions or should we give preferential treatment , much like the quota system for the electoral lists of the political parties ?
And is it then up to the state , in other words the legislative , to impose such measures on political parties ?
Or should we even consider a system in which 50 % of seats are reserved for women in elected bodies ?
In my opinion , the political battle should be fought at a political concept level rather than at a gender level .
I am a great fan of voluntary quotas on electoral lists , without which , in fact , I would not be here today .
Like Mrs Van Lancker , I am a product of such a measure .
In my opinion , though , the state should not and must not use coercion to interfere in the internal affairs of political parties , at the risk of jeopardising democracy itself .
In other words , the means which we employ to give women their rightful place within the political democracy should not lead to a system of gender apartheid .
We would , in this way , violate democracy .
Mr President , today ' s debate is devoted to the subject of the composition of decision-making bodies and changes to the decision-making system in Europe .
We have entered a new period in which there is a fairly full institutional framework and in which women are well represented in all sectors , education , work , culture .
The problem which we have to deal with is how to change the composition of the decision-making centres .
The debate is a deeply political one .
There are two approaches .
The first is a policy of persuasion . Gradually everyone will be persuaded that women can become involved .
Three comments : the first is based on the fact that women are able . I can , therefore all women can .
How do we respond therefore to the fact that women are excluded ? We are able but the rest of the female population is not ?
Here lies the danger of female arrogance in politics .
Because women have to deal with different realities .
Because they have fewer opportunities .
Because they have a different level of education .
The second comment is that we need to persuade the political leaders .
Not necessary !
They have all been persuaded !
There is not one male politician who does not agree to the involvement of women .
There is not one party , from the far left to the far right , which does not stress the need for women to take part .
On paper !
Thirdly , we must expect things to change gradually .
The women ' s conference in Beijing brought an important point to light .
With the rate at which the representation of women is developing at international level , it will take 2,300 years to achieve a balance between men and women .
As far as Europe is concerned , as far as the European Parliament is concerned , where there is a quota for the involvement of women , it will take 25 years to achieve balanced representation .
The second approach is a compulsory legislative commitment on the representation of women .
Quotas alone are not enough .
If only a legislative decree were all it took to change centuries of history .
On this we are clear . Quotas are one of the ways , one of the policies needed to bring about change .
Thank you , Mrs Diamantopoulou .
I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to Rule 37 ( 2 ) .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow morning .
Floods in Mozambique
The next item is the Commission statement on flooding in Mozambique .
Mr Patten has the floor on behalf of the Commission .
The Commission is following with very great concern , as I know all honourable Members will be , the emergency situation in Mozambique .
About 800 000 people appear to have been affected by the floods , about 300 000 are in urgent need of food and other types of humanitarian assistance .
Several people have lost their lives , many have disappeared , many have been injured .
The government of Mozambique has appealed for humanitarian aid from third countries .
The international community including the United States of America , Switzerland , South Africa , Ireland , Norway , Denmark , Italy , Sweden and the Netherlands have to date provided substantial assistance .
My colleague Poul Nielson is literally on his way to Mozambique this afternoon and evening together with the Portuguese Secretary of State to assess the situation on the ground .
Mr Nielson will be happy to report back to Parliament on the findings of his mission .
Just before I say a word about the assistance which has been given by ECHO so far , perhaps I can be allowed to make three rather personal remarks .
First of all , from 1986 to 1989 , I was an overseas development minister and I formed a particular attachment to the people of Mozambique .
They were bravely dealing then with huge environmental and political problems , with the problems of poverty and the consequences of a bloody war .
If ever a country deserved help from aid donors it was Mozambique .
Secondly , that feeling has been confirmed by the real efforts which Mozambique has made in the last few years to build a strong and prosperous economy and a stable society .
Thirdly , we spent much of this afternoon in this Chamber discussing conflict prevention , how one could prevent crises happening or how one could respond to crises more effectively .
Let me turn to the assistance provided so far .
These NGOs will address the most urgent need which is to move people in danger to more secure areas as well as providing health care , water and sanitation .
These NGOs will be concentrating on the areas of water and sanitation , provision of shelter , plastic sheeting , jerry cans , blankets , those sorts of things .
A third decision will be considered in the light of the mission of Commissioner Nielson .
It is envisaged that this response would link the current phase of emergency through to re-construction within a three to four years time horizon .
At times like this we are all aware of how much more we need to do to prevent disasters and to deal expeditiously with the disasters that we are not able to prevent .
I repeat , Commissioner Nielson will be happy to report to Parliament when he returns from Mozambique and the scene of the disaster .
Mr President , Commissioner , Mozambique is a young African country which has made heroic efforts to recover from the underdevelopment resulting from two decades of civil war and to adapt to democracy .
The credit for Mozambique ' s success story must be shared equally by its government , by the opposition , but above all , by the people of Mozambique .
There have already been hundreds of deaths .
It is now obvious that the main priority is for rescue helicopters , followed immediately by food aid and other emergency humanitarian aid .
This is undoubtedly the greatest priority at the moment : search and rescue transport and emergency humanitarian aid , including food aid .
I would like to emphasise , however , that the EU and the rest of the world must not limit their aid to Mozambique to the emergency that we are now discussing .
We must be aware of the aftermath of the floods .
Rebuilding infrastructure is crucial , because otherwise there can be no development . It is also time for some creditor countries to think about writing off or reducing Mozambique ' s debts .
If nothing is done now , we will be letting all the effort that we have made in the past to help Mozambique in its development go to waste .
I therefore hope that the visit by Commissioner Nielson and representatives of the Portuguese presidency this week will enable us to treat this extremely important issue with the seriousness it deserves .
Mr President , it has already been said that , after a war which engulfed the country in misery , Mozambique is now facing a natural disaster of terrifying proportions .
Although it is currently impossible to calculate how many people have died , we do know that around 80 000 are in imminent danger of drowning and 300 000 have lost their homes and crops .
They urgently need aid such as food , water and shelter in order to survive .
This immediate need will subsequently be replaced by a requirement for medicine to prevent epidemics , which have apparently already broken out , and aid for reconstruction .
However , the aid needed now is difficult to get through , despite the efforts of the NGOs , because the roads , bridges and railway lines are damaged .
Helicopters are therefore needed .
Apparently there are only five at the moment to rescue about 80 000 people from trees .
The machinery mobilising the aid is too slow .
The PSE Group of this House has suggested that preventing natural disasters , including preventing conflicts , is the best way of avoiding situations like the one now being suffered by the people of Mozambique .
I must remind you in particular of the efforts of Mr Rocard during the previous term .
However , Africa is surprisingly not included in the DIPECHO plans .
Mozambique , which is now suffering a foreseeable disaster , just as the famine now threatening in Ethiopia was foreseeable , is excluded from these plans .
The DIPECHO agenda includes south-east Asia , Central America and the Caribbean .
This is reasonable and we support this , but we have to ask the Commissioner , why not Africa ?
The PSE Group has always supported the Commission ' s humanitarian aid policy .
In view of all this , we also believe the time has come to demand a redoubled effort by the Commission and the Member States , on behalf of those who are now drowning in Mozambique .
The EUR 1 million which has so far been made available is completely inadequate in view of the needs which have been assessed by the Mozambican Government at 65 million dollars .
The time has also come to demand greater efficiency .
Mr President , the situation in Mozambique is of the greatest urgency .
Each day , each hour of delay costs many lives .
There are only a few helicopters available to save tens of thousands of victims .
The water levels continue to rise .
Starvation and epidemics seem inevitable .
It is as if the whole world is looking on , helplessly .
The question is whether the Commission has reacted with sufficient alertness .
I must admit that I have my doubts about this .
Commissioner Nielson is flying out today .
In European terms , this may be swift action , but given the emergency in Mozambique , this is probably very late .
Unlike a number of Member States , the European Union has promised only very limited aid so far .
What options does the Commission have , to offer effective help fast ?
What could emergency and reconstruction aid consist of ?
Can Commissioner Patten update us on the international coordination so far ?
Why was it not possible to come to the rescue with a larger number of helicopters sooner ?
Mr President , all the reports and pictures reaching us bear witness to the scale of the tragedy afflicting Mozambique .
There are thousands and thousands of displaced persons , a large number of dead , a lack of food and drinking water , and homes and crops have been destroyed .
And this is happening in a country which , because it is one of the poorest in the world , does not have the minimal essential resources to help those affected as quickly as necessary .
It is therefore vital for the EU and its Member States to intervene in a way which will enable us to provide this country and its people with rapid and exceptional help .
We know that because of the dramatic nature of the situation , representatives of the Portuguese Presidency and Commissioner Nielson left today for Mozambique .
Thousands upon thousands of human lives are in danger at the moment , and only international solidarity can save them .
I would like to think that the EU is up to the task of providing the people of Mozambique with what they expect from us .
Mr President , I would like to begin by emphasising , first of all , the timing and the topicality of this debate on the devastating floods in Mozambique .
They are no longer there , having been swept away in the torrents .
Most of these people can only be saved by aircraft , especially helicopters , of which it is clear that too few are in action .
As the President of Mozambique , Joaquim Chissano , remarked in a dramatic appeal , each passing day may mean death for many Mozambicans .
The EU must therefore mobilise resources immediately and effectively , in terms of quantity as well as quality , and it must employ the most rapid and appropriate means of achieving this .
We must do this not only in line with basic humanitarian principles and out of solidarity , but also - and quickly - because we know that Mozambique is one of the poorest countries in the world .
It is true that Mozambique ' s democracy is still far from perfect , as shown by the way in which the results of the recent presidential elections were contested and doubts were cast upon them .
As has already been said , helicopters are the priority and it is equally important that there is no delay in providing this humanitarian aid .
This would be a real tragedy and one which would weigh heavily on the conscience of us all .
The Commissioner said a while ago that he had emotional ties with Mozambique , as I have myself , and that he therefore understands the whole tragic situation taking place and what is at stake .
Children have lost parents , families are bereft , hopeless , helpless and they have lost absolutely everything .
This morning there were seven helicopters and of course those helicopters are only working in the Gaza region .
The Save river has huge flooding problems as well but no one has even been there yet .
85 % of the work is within an hour of Maputo so we really have no idea what the extent of the problem is .
Also I would like to say Commissioner that European citizens want to know exactly what ECHO is doing .
Most of us here would not wish to boast about EUR 3 million .
We need far more and I hope that the Commissioner will come back with those promises and also with an initiative to coordinate some of the efforts there .
Clearly also we need to see a massive airlift . As you say tons of food , water purification equipment , tents , blankets .
Are we really prepared for the next relief and rehabilitation stage which you mention because that again will demand massive resources .
Are we ready to pay for those resources ?
Mozambique is a wonderful example but now likely to suffer enormous hardship as a result of what they have endured .
How badly the disaster sets Mozambique back is what we should be looking at now and that depends on the sheer quality and quantity of international relief for that stricken country .
Thank you , Mrs Kinnock .
Mr Nogueira , we note your interest and concern about this subject but your Group is not down to speak and I must abide by the Rules of Procedure .
The debate is closed .
Union Economy ( 1999 )
This is the challenge .
In Europe , in your rapporteur ' s opinion , this is exactly the attitude that has served us badly over past years , not just once but repeatedly .
Such an attitude has downside risks which I understand the ECOFIN Council is currently discussing .
These risks involve a correction in the US economy and the future trend in oil prices and in long-term EU interest rates .
Should any of these risks materialise in a negative fashion , what will be our response - more laissez faire or shall we have prepared ourselves better than in the last downturn ?
It has been my proposal that Parliament must recommend an activist economic policy consisting of two main parts .
To allow the public sector to take the necessary significant lead in investment policy , the Council would indeed have to sacrifice some of its most sacred cows .
This was the first pillar of my recommendation .
Unfortunately my colleagues of the People ' s Party aided and abetted by the Liberals in the Economic Affairs Committee found my approach unacceptable .
I believe that the political message of this Parliament should consist of something more original than a mere rehash of the neo-classical economic mantra .
Something more robust than a call to surrender to the fatalities of the market economy , something more decent than opposing dutiful aims but denying them the means of their realisation .
The report which has come to you from the Economic Committee sins in all these respects .
Instead he has defended his own position which was not the one approved in committee .
We clearly have different views , one of which is that we believe the development of the European economy can be regarded with confidence .
Yesterday , when speaking to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , Commissioner Solbes specifically indicated that the prospects for this year and next for the European economy are excellent .
Moreover , several countries were mentioned whose problem is what to do with the public surplus .
Furthermore , the Member States refused to contribute more funds when we discussed Agenda 2000 which means that there will be little available over the next few years at Union level .
However , we must stress the need to continue developing the construction of the European internal market which still has some serious flaws .
This report contains information which shows that in order to create a new company the bureaucratic cost in the USA is EUR 500 and in the European Union , on average , it is EUR 1 600 .
We therefore still have too much bureaucracy and intervention .
This is the objective , in respect of which he called upon the European Parliament : give hope to the people of Europe .
There is indeed economic recovery , but it only marginally reduces unemployment in Europe .
The votes of the PPE-DE and the Liberals have very considerably diminished , and even reversed , the meaning of his message .
That is why we did not vote in favour of the report as amended by them , despite our efforts , and we shall not vote for it as it stands at the moment .
What are the minimum conditions under which we would vote for this report ?
There is an enormous amount of work to be done to keep to our commitments by the fateful year 2008 , by which time we shall have to return to 1990 levels of greenhouse gas emissions .
A tremendous amount of work remains to be done in the field of transport , energy saving and even in substituting travel by communication via the Internet .
Secondly , even the growth rate of 3 or 4 % , something we consider eminently feasible , will not be sufficient to reduce unemployment if we do not improve the job content of this growth .
And we should say so very clearly , it will involve more savings on services , more third systems , more reductions in average working hours , whatever methods we adopt to achieve these things .
Thirdly , we fully agree that it is necessary to reform labour relations in Europe , but that clearly means for us that we must protect and enrich the human capital .
Mr President , I think that this policy will engender not hope , but deep disappointment in European workers .
Even the positive contribution of the international financial institutions and high-level experts , who gave the benefit of their concerns and ideas , failed miserably to muster any support .
Our Group categorically condemns this perception and , in this sense , does not intend to support this resolution .
It will be voting against it .
We are well aware of these handicaps , which must be remedied urgently - the structural inflexibility , the excessive mandatory levies .
But let us not forget that there is another one , a new handicap , with the single currency .
This unification is considered to be positive by the Commission ' s report .
But , in reality , we can no longer rule out the fact that it will lead to a less than optimum global situation .
Mr President , the present draft resolution is controversial .
Given the topic it covers , this is hardly surprising .
It is , after all , a fact that economists agree to disagree on most things , especially where the future is concerned .
The carefree appeal made by the rapporteur for higher economic growth seems an attractive way of fighting high unemployment , but it is , in fact , a short-term policy .
Even if he advocates sustainable growth , sustainability does not come into it .
Given the environmental and demographic developments , if anything , we ought to encourage Member States to pursue a selective economic growth policy .
More investments , production and consumption only generate short-lived prosperity .
The use of energy and scarce raw materials should be drastically reduced
Other priorities are the repayment of high public debt and restructuring pension schemes .
If Member States do not do anything about this , there will be even fewer means for care , education and other important public amenities in the future .
An appeal in favour of a more pro-active government policy comes across as very odd .
It does not take into account the latest Eurostat reports regarding rising inflation which , at 2 % , is now at its maximum permitted level .
If , despite this , there is a desire to increase public spending , then those who go down this path will find that it is not long before the European Central Bank raises interest rates again .
What the government can then achieve in the way of job creation will be cancelled out by the unfavourable developments for small and medium-sized enterprises , in particular .
High unemployment in the European Union concerns all of us , especially now that the downward trend does not seem to be persisting .
Promoting employment , however , is a long-winded affair and comes under structural policy .
Member States , in particular , should adopt an effective policy .
In order to achieve this , they must be given the necessary leeway .
Rigidity by imposing social convergence criteria and other Community guidelines certainly does not create the necessary jobs .
However , shifting the tax burden from labour to the use of raw materials and minerals is precisely what we need by way of a lasting contribution .
Mr President , first of all , I would like to congratulate my colleague Giorgos Katiforis on the report he presented to us .
Not the report he presented to us here today , but the one he presented to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , because politically speaking , these are two completely different reports .
In very general terms , we could call the first report a left-wing one , as it addresses social issues as well as economic ones .
What did Mr Katiforis actually propose and what has been taken out of the report ?
He proposed an ambitious report , based on an optimistic Europe , which sought to establish quantified targets for the results it was seeking to achieve .
And Europe has indeed achieved progress by means of quantified targets .
Why , for example , was the proposal to increase Europe ' s active population to 75 % of the total population removed , when we currently have levels of around 60 % ?
An active population of 60 % is very low compared with that of Japan or the United States and we cannot match those countries ' levels of production with such a low rate of employment .
We therefore need to augment our rate of employment with jobs that are competitive .
As has been advocated for the Lisbon Summit , we must prepare our workforce for the new technologies by giving them scientific training .
We also need investment to grow at a faster rate .
We are all familiar with the idea advocated by Mr von Wogau , according to which what we need is a flexible workforce .
What we want , therefore , is for Europe to enjoy economic growth , but also be prepared to address social issues .
Mr President , like many others , I want to thank Mr Katiforis for an interesting report .
When I read the report and see the picture of the EU ' s economy that is described there , I think it is quite a worrying picture .
Investment levels are too low , unemployment is still too high and there is insufficient growth .
The rapporteur observes that stability is not an end in itself , which is something I agree with .
There is far too much talk about stability , convergence and coordination and far too little about the factors which give rise to innovation and development .
As far as I am concerned , EMU cooperation looms ponderously large as a colossus which will have difficulty keeping afloat in the present swelling economy .
My conclusions about this differ completely , however , from those of the previous speaker .
In this context , I can , in fact , see the EMU project ' s main weakness , for it is true that you cannot act like Superman and raise the European economies from above .
Instead , you have to mobilise working people and the people out there in the Member States .
In terms of outlook , the document points to an upswing , to long-term prospects and the measures required to achieve this , which Karl von Wogau then proceeded to enlarge upon .
I am pleased that the debate we have been having here has been a tough one , for it underlines the fact that there are various approaches to economic policy .
We want to continue along the successful European path to growth and employment and a functioning internal market , to hasten our progress and supplement this with the necessary measures .
The left-wing of this House does not want to continue along this path , rather it makes dramatic statements such as : what we need is state intervention , not the extension and consolidation of the market economy .
State intervention has always led to a high level of debt , and a higher level of debt has always damaged growth and employment , as well as social justice .
That is what the debate we are having is all about , on the subject of which I have this to say to you : we need more freedom and less state intervention .
It is sound framework conditions and not state intervention that enables enterprises to create growth and employment .
Mr President , the economic situation of the European Union from the viewpoint of the workers is eighteen million unemployed people , it is the generalisation of insecurity , of low wages , of deteriorating working conditions .
But you never speak of restraining the income of shareholders that is infinitely higher from the outset and which increases shockingly every year .
What you have as a result are all these major trusts that cut jobs while their profits are high , and which often make staff redundant simply to make their share price rise on the stock market .
Eleven thousand job losses at Hoechst and Rhone-Poulenc , twenty two thousand at Unilever , ten thousand at ABB / Alsthom Power , not to mention all the others .
The economic growth on which you pride yourself only benefits a fortunate minority , the owners and shareholders of the large industrial and banking groups .
This is the key ideological struggle for Europe facing us .
This debate , I think , has summed it up .
This report is a wake-up call to Europe .
This report recommends radical measures , which in essence will make it easier to employ people .
It is as simple as that .
The reason why we have such crippling unemployment rates in Europe is that it is too difficult in many cases to employ people because of the red tape and the regulation and the inflexibility of the labour markets .
This report signals very clearly the most effective way to do that , because Europe has to wake up .
It cannot create jobs just by government spending .
It cannot create jobs by legislating to cut working hours , as if jobs were a cake that you carve up and divide between people .
The real world simply does not work like that .
And if Europe wants to be left behind , left behind to stagnation and to unemployment and to statism and to corporatism , than yes , vote against this report tomorrow .
It is this absence of management of the European economy which is responsible , my dear Mr von Wogau , for the fall of the euro .
Lastly , the recommendations also incorporated an updated version of the proposals in President Delors ' White Paper on the promotion of a European project for the development of a common network of infrastructures and services .
Mr President , Mr Katiforis ' s report is exciting .
In its original form , it points the way towards a renewed economic policy which aims at something more than merely tightening up and balancing the economy .
The debate and vote here in plenary ought to correct this .
I am also thinking of the importance of strengthening the applicant States ' links with trans-European networks in the shape of both physical forms of transport and IT infrastructure .
This is important for growth but also in order to avoid gulfs developing between people , both within the EU and between the EU and the applicant States .
The applicant States ought not merely to tag along behind but , instead , share the EU ' s ambition of becoming a world leader in the communications field .
Society needs , therefore , to take responsibility for the rapid and vigorous expansion of a modern IT infrastructure which also reaches small companies , poor regions and ordinary citizens .
We have that opportunity right now . Let us grasp it .
Mr President , the advantage of speaking at the end of such a debate is that you can react to what has been said before .
I would like to say that I strongly disagree with Mrs Villiers ' view that this is such an interesting debate .
I think that the European Parliament is doing itself absolutely no favours by thinking only in terms of old categories and churning out old political concepts and visions .
It would have been much better if we had actually made the effort to reach compromises and to develop a common vision .
The Portuguese presidency has submitted a wide agenda of this kind for the extra summit in Lisbon .
The Commission has done this in its five-year plan by listing one of the four priorities .
The Commission document too , which is being drafted for the summit in Lisbon , takes precisely such a wide approach which covers different areas .
I think that in adopting this wide socio-economic approach , the European Union is taking exactly the right line , not least because that is the economic entity on the basis of which policy is drafted .
Are we going to have nothing more to report than the fact that we are still stuck in a mould of old political contradictions ?
.
( ES ) Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , firstly I must thank this House for its serious and detailed work .
There is no doubt that the hearings of experts and the debates in committee have provided us with additional high-quality information .
There is also no doubt that , throughout the debate this afternoon , we have heard differing opinions about the possible policies .
However , I believe that there are also some elements of consensus .
We all agree that the current economic conjuncture is good .
We also agree about trying to further and benefit from this situation in order to improve conditions and about aiming for a definite improvement in employment .
I will briefly comment on these issues before concentrating on the last point which I regard as the essential issue in today ' s debate .
Yesterday , as some of you have noted , the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs referred to the improvement in the economic situation in Europe .
We currently believe that this improvement , which we highlighted in the perspectives in November , may lead to even better results than initially forecast .
Employment is growing at a good rate .
When we submitted our report , we referred to the risks posed by growth .
We basically highlighted the possibility of encountering difficulties in terms of growth in the USA , and therefore in other parts of the world , and of a sudden rise in inflation .
Parliament ' s analysis has highlighted another issue which is the development of risk in the stock markets .
The Commission regards this as significant although we do not believe that this is the basic problem .
Anyway , we currently have some excellent opportunities to do more .
We all agree that , after a decade of very weak growth and intolerable unemployment , certain action must be taken .
We need public and private investment .
Our levels of research and development are too low compared with our competitors and our low level of employment reflects , among other factors , the imbalances in our labour market .
Our aim must therefore be to make this reactivation of the economy long-lasting with strong growth and job creation .
What policy should we use to achieve these objectives ?
In our opinion , the Union ' s economy is reactivating but we still have idle production capacity , not only in terms of physical capital but also new sources of jobs .
The policy mix to be applied should specifically allow this capacity to be fully absorbed .
We must define a macro-economic policy which aids growth .
This is not an expansionist policy in the sense of growth for growth ' s sake .
This policy mix will undoubtedly be good for investment and will lead to growth .
The EU ' s potential for growth must pay particular attention to certain factors , on most of which I believe we agree with Parliament ' s analysis .
Firstly , private investment must be assisted .
The Union must help to promote the spirit of enterprise and to generate employment in this way , but without forgetting public investment .
Our main support in the future must be for research and development and human capital .
These are two of the principal challenges for the Lisbon Summit .
This is the policy which the Commission has defended and will continue to defend in Lisbon .
Common fisheries policy
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports :
The proposals for a Council regulation on the collection and management of fisheries data and for a Council decision on a financial contribution in this respect are both very welcome .
So is a joint debate on them since each can only be fully understood in the light of the other .
I understand that they have been some five years in their gestation .
With the review of the common fisheries policy due in 2002 , it is important that swift progress is now made .
To take first the proposal for the Council regulation , this makes provision for Member States to collect a wider range of data relating to fisheries than required under previous regulations .
Both biological and economic information are included .
The proposal also makes provision for Member States to produce such data in aggregated form .
Exactly which new data are to be collected and what is to be aggregated from these and existing data will be specified by an implementing regulation .
The proposal for the Council decision allows for the making of the financial contribution by the Community to Member States engaged in the collection and management of data .
It also allows the Commission itself to finance studies and pilot projects .
The only apparent sanction for Member States that do not completely fulfil the requirements of the minimum programme under the regulation is that they will not be eligible for any financial assistance in respect to the extended programme .
Two major areas of concern about the proposal were considered by the Committee .
The first relates to the degree of involvement of the Commission .
The original proposal simply allowed for the information being gathered to be transmitted to international organisations .
The Commission would only receive a copy of any such transmissions if it requested one .
Since , however , the Community is funding the exercise , it was felt appropriate for it to see a direct return on its investment .
Thus , Amendment No 6 , while maintaining the freedom of Member States to transmit the data to international organisations , requires that it also be sent annually to the Commission .
This change is taken in conjunction with Amendments Nos 1 , 4 and 7 .
Amendment No 1 clarifies the point that , although the data are to be scientifically based , they are being collected for wider decision-making purposes .
Amendment No 4 makes it clear that the object of the exercise is the evaluation of fisheries resources generally .
Amendment No 7 calls on the Commission to report annually on the use it has made of the data collected under the regulation .
It is also designed to give greater momentum to the process with earlier and more frequent reporting back by the Commission on the progress of the data collection programme as a whole .
The other area of concern related to the range of data to be collected under the regulation .
First , in respect to economic data , Amendment No 2 makes two changes .
One attempts to ensure that the data sought are no more detailed than necessary to serve the objective being pursued .
The other replaces a reference to income from sales and other revenue , subsidies , interest received , etc . , with a reference simply to volume of sales .
It is considered that without these changes undesirably high costs in the collection of data could be incurred in Member States and that there could also be serious problems of confidentiality .
In conjunction with these changes , Amendment No 5 deletes a reference to accounting headings accordingly .
Secondly , in respect to the environmental data , the original proposal speaks only of biological and economic information .
The Commission has , however , made it clear that it intends itself to engage in studies and pilot projects of a wider environmental kind .
It has also made it clear that it may wish to extend the range of data being collected by Member States at a later stage .
Amendment No 3 brings into the ambit of the current regulation data of the kind needed to monitor changes in aquatic ecosystems .
This will certainly facilitate the introduction of a new regulation concerning environmental data and may even render this unnecessary .
It should be stressed that the Amendment does not in any way require the Commission to include the collection of such data either under the minimum or the extended programmes it establishes .
It merely permits the Commission to do so should it so wish .
As already stated the proposal for the Council decision falls into two parts .
The first is concerned with financing the Member States in implementing the Community programmes .
The second is to allow the Commission itself to finance pilot studies and projects .
Amendments Nos 4 and 5 aim to ensure that financial information is forwarded continuously to the budgetary authority .
More significantly , under Amendment No 1 , the Fisheries Committee accepts the recommendation of the Budgets Committee that the funding should be placed under heading 1 ( b ) rather than heading 3 of the Financial Perspective .
Although in its preliminary draft budget the Commission entered the appropriations under heading 3 ' Internal Policies ' , Parliament created a new budget line B1-500 to finance the measures under discussion .
This provides a safeguard to ensure that the necessary resources will continue to be available .
The proposed exhaustive collection of data and the appropriate management of this data will be very valuable in helping to tackle the revision of the common fisheries policy in a more rigorous manner .
The sending of data is completely voluntary and failure to do so will only mean that certain financial assistance , which is not very significant anyway , will not be received .
My Group has included two reasonable requests .
As a result , this report is very satisfactory and , on behalf of my Group , I therefore ask for its approval .
I wish at the outset to congratulate Mrs Attwooll on the preparation and presentation of her report .
I welcome the establishment of a Community framework for the collection and management of fisheries data which I believe is absolutely essential if we are to properly assess the level of stocks of the various species of fish .
I welcome the availability of funding for national programmes , even taking into consideration provisions concerning the minimum programmes to be met .
I agree with the proposals that information provided to international organisations should also be made available to the Commission .
Otherwise the purpose of collecting and collating data would be defeated and if the information is not available then the precautionary approach would continue .
Sound , factual information is in the best interests of the industry .
We are trying to manage a policy of catches and in so doing we are creating injustice .
It is indeed a good idea to wish to prevent the depletion of fragile resources , but what is the point if Europe restricts its catches and world catches increase ?
What is the point of banning European drift nets in the le d ' Yeu or elsewhere , if Japan , Korea and Tunisia use them and land fish here which we are not allowed to catch ?
What is more , the movement of fish is like CO2 or like capital , it is not European , but world-wide .
Brussels , which wanted to do away with nations on the pretext that they were unsuited to the task , now in turn finds itself unsuited to managing a resource which itself is an international asset .
Together with Mrs Attwooll , I am in favour of collecting scientific data , and of fair and accurate checks , on condition that they do not vary according to the severity or the laxness of the administrations .
But to enlighten the decision makers , let us practise honest science , without the ulterior motive of having the European Union finance excuses to destroy our fishing boats .
For if we must preserve the shoals of fish , we must also preserve the ports and the fishermen .
That would be good internationalism as opposed to the bad internationalism , as practised with the free exchange areas and other false friends of the OECD .
Mr President , Commissioner , to be able to adopt a credible fisheries policy , the Commission needs comprehensive and reliable data on fish stocks and fisheries fleets at its disposal .
The Commission relies on the Member States for the collation of this data .
A Community framework for the collation of this data adds some structure and improves accessibility for the purpose of scientific evaluation .
The question , however , is whether or not the Member States would be prepared , under this new regime , to make the necessary data available at the requested time .
Effective sanctions and / or incentives , which aim to encourage Member States to adopt a more serious approach , are lacking from the Commission ' s proposal .
Moreover , can we rely sufficiently on this information ?
How reliable is fishing data , as long as there are still large amounts of fish being caught illegally , as British fisherman David Cox recently admitted in Fishing News ?
And what should we make of the data on fleet capacity ?
Further to the Court of Auditor ' s criticism , in January this Parliament adopted my amendment to the Cunha report with a large majority .
The amendment requests independent verification of fleet capacity data .
I would like to know from the Commission how it has processed this recommendation , which is also endorsed by the Advisory Committee .
Finally , radical decisions are sometimes mainly based on opinions presented by biologists .
We therefore have everything to gain from improving the accuracy of biological predictions , for example by certifying the drafting of these opinions .
Furthermore , the Commission must provide sufficient financial means for the inspection of stock levels .
It is also recommended that more use be made of the expertise and experience gathered by fishermen when biological opinions are drafted .
The Northern Ireland fishing industry has received many hard blows from this Union .
They have seen their own waters plundered by others while they have had to put up their own boats and desist from fishing .
The recent decisions on the cod quota for the Irish Sea is yet another hard blow which could well prove to be a mortal blow to the Northern Ireland fishing industry .
I see the Commissioner smiling but I speak with the authority of all the political parties in Northern Ireland , a diverse crowd but all agreed on this one issue .
That is scandalous , their case ought to be heard .
It should be put on record , and I want to put it on record today .
However , the fact that the updating and sending of data are purely optional and that this involves a very wide range of data and sectors may distort the final objective of the Commission ' s proposal .
It should be pointed out that not all the Member States have the same amount of data .
Some have different sectors and , in view of the volume of data to be sent , could be prejudiced compared with those which have a smaller volume of data , if the same deadlines are set .
These deadlines for submission must therefore be staggered accordingly .
Much of this data is confidential , as has also been mentioned , which could affect the competitiveness of the sectors involved and their enterprises .
We must therefore act very carefully in this area and guarantee the confidentiality of this data .
Some of the data is also irrelevant such as that referring to the taxation of enterprises .
I too want to congratulate Mrs Attwooll and say that I agree with most of what she said .
I regard it as a weakness in the proposal that reporting is not mandatory in all Member States .
In view of the coming review of the policy in 2002 it is important that we have all possible information , economic as well as biological .
In the past somebody said to me I have been defending the decisions the Commission makes .
I am informed when I take a closer look that the information is in fact quite higgledy-piggledy with bits coming from here and there and no clear , proper economic and biological picture emerging .
If we do not have this picture then it will not be possible to make reasonable decisions in two years ' time about the future of the policy .
Mr President , Commissioner , no one could dispute the usefulness of implementing the qualitative and quantitative data on the fishing industry , particularly in view of the reform of the CFP in 2002 .
We are also of the opinion that Community funds should be set aside to fund these activities .
A common fisheries policy must coordinate as well as possible the requirements for conservation of species and resource management with economic and market requirements .
To this end , more extensive , compatible , uniform data is required , and we expect this to provide us with more general information on the Union ' s fishing industry if properly collected and interpreted .
A case in point is the Mediterranean , including my country ' s fishing industry .
This is a worthy objective , the implementation of which , however , has sometimes revealed an ignorance of the biological characteristics of Mediterranean species of fish .
A subsequent regulation , Regulation 1448 , adopted , not by chance , in 1999 , permitted certain exemptions , in particular for special cases .
The time period will elapse on 31 May next , to be precise , when the Commission will present a proposal .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Fischler .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Combating certain fish diseases
Although the virus has been found in other species , the disease itself is so far confined to salmon .
The virus is known not to survive above 25o Celsius and scientists have therefore agreed that no threat to human health exists ; it simply cannot survive in warm-blooded creatures .
The Scottish salmon-farming industry is the biggest in the EU , spread throughout some of Europe ' s most peripheral communities .
It sustains some 6 500 jobs and generates around EUR 800 million annually .
It is obvious therefore that this issue is especially important to Scotland but it is vitally important to all parts of Europe that the disease be brought under control and , if possible , eradicated .
The current directive prohibits the use of vaccination and requires that all fish in an affected farm be slaughtered whether affected by the disease or not .
The intention in adopting the current regime was to eradicate ISA and to do so as quickly as possible .
The proposed changes are twofold : the first would permit the use of vaccination as a weapon in this battle .
This is a necessary change and should be accompanied by a commitment at European level to instigate and fund research into developing an effective vaccine .
The second proposed change would permit a phased withdrawal of fish from affected farms , working to a plan based on the severity of the problem in any particular farm .
I therefore support the Commission ' s proposed changes and I am calling for their urgent adoption and implementation .
I thank colleagues in the Fisheries Committee for their overwhelming vote in support of my report and I in particular thank my Scottish colleagues in the committee for their input to this whole process .
I am opposing Amendments 7 to 13 which were decisively rejected by the Fisheries Committee .
Most of their content is either unnecessary or already referred to in my text .
These amendments by the Green component of the Greens / European Free Alliance Group are designed to provide justification for Amendment 13 .
There is no proposal to change that and under the proposed new regime there is no question of diseased fish being sold .
Amendments 7 to 13 simply fail to take account of the reality as evidenced by the starkly contrasting statistics from Scotland and from Norway .
In Scotland we have endured a draconian regime which has failed to achieve its objective .
In Norway , with their much longer experience , compulsory , 100 % culling was abandoned some years ago and a range of measures have led there to a dramatically improved situation .
It is in all of our interests to ensure that in Scotland too we contain ISA and prevent its further spread .
Last week saw the publication in Scotland of a report by a joint government and industry working group on ISA .
Some can and will be implemented immediately by local authorities using existing powers , others will be incorporated into codes of practice .
All will be beneficial , not just in relation to ISA but in achieving better standards in aquaculture generally where required .
I congratulate Mr Hudghton and fully support his report and would urge the honourable Members of Parliament to do likewise .
Now , as he said , in excess of 85 000 tons of Salmon is now produced in Scottish fish farms in an industry which generates more than EUR 800 million annually .
Regrettably , although ISA was first detected in Scotland only two years ago , it has now spread to 29 farms directly and around 240 other farms are affected in some way or another .
Wild salmon , trout and eels have been found to carry the virus which now seems to be endemic even in the wider marine environment .
So this report , Mr President , provides an encouraging range of proposals for improving the way in which the authorities in the UK and elsewhere should respond to the disease .
So I thoroughly recommend and hope that the Parliament will support this excellent report .
I would like to thank the rapporteur , Mr Hudghton , also for this report .
Scottish salmon farming is the biggest in the European Union and accommodates 90 % of the British aquacultural industry .
The industry is located in some of Europe ' s most peripheral communities providing an economic lifeline to those communities .
In recent research it is estimated that the industry is worth EUR 800 million per annum and 6 500 jobs rely on its existence .
I believe that this report gives a clear method for dealing with Infectious Salmon Anaemia which is both practical , realistic and also achievable .
The example of Norway demonstrates the effectiveness of this approach .
There is a saying that the dead tell no tales and I am sure they do not eat fish but I do and I look forward to the implementation of this report .
I too would like to compliment Mr Hudghton on his report and to endorse his additions to the original proposal in relation both to the matter of compensation and encouragement of vaccine development .
This is not though to deny the importance of environmental considerations in relation to fish farming .
Secondly , looking forward to the motion for a resolution on the Katiforis report later this evening , paragraph 28 is of particular importance .
This calls on the Commission and Member States to step up the adoption of measures to combat the possible negative effects of aquaculture on the marine environment .
This infectious salmon disease is caused by an orthomixomicrovirus which breaks down the blood of salmon , causing death .
It spreads very easily through mucus in saline water , etc .
What we currently propose is to relax this directive , so that we do not cull all the fish , but only the fish that are found to be diseased .
For the others , well , we would have time to see what would happen , according to local circumstances .
I think it is a very serious matter that we act in this way .
What about women ?
Nobody has undertaken any studies on human tissue in that regard .
There is another risk to the environment as well , because this disease is transmitted to wild fish , as we have seen .
For this reason , together with my colleague , Patricia McKenna , we have tabled amendments against the proposals made by the Commission .
This is a Community policy which will effect Ireland as well - where I am from - should similar unfortunate events occur .
And people have spoken in the past about BSE .
For many years the Greens were calling for the BSE issue to be addressed .
Had it been at that time , you could have actually saved an awful lot of farmers and the EU a huge amount of money .
So it also has to do with environmental protection . The protection of the farmers themselves and the protection of public health .
I would like to thank Mr Hudghton for his excellent report on ISA and for broadly supporting the measures proposed by the Commission and also for the contributions from each of the speakers this evening .
The Commission proposal aims to ensure a more pragmatic approach towards controlling a disease that has the potential to cause important losses in salmon farms .
However , this cannot be allowed to compromise our objective of reducing and possibility eliminating ISA .
Nor can it be done , if the proposal involves a threat to public health .
The environmental implications must also be taken very seriously .
I am advised that ISA is considered non-pathogenic for humans and mammals .
The disease exists since 1984 and there is no report of it affecting human health or mammals .
The virus harms cold-blooded animals .
It does not replicate at temperatures above 25 centigrade and would , if present in fish for human consumption , be inactivated when ingested .
In no way , however , can diseased fish be used for human consumption .
As an extra precaution , I am validating this advice to our scientific committee .
During the debate , a number of important issues linked to our disease-control strategy have been raised including compensation .
I deeply regret the losses suffered by the Scottish salmon industry .
You may know that with effect from 15 January 2000 , under the new financial instrument for fisheries guidance , Member States may encourage eradication of diseases in aquaculture .
The Commission ' s services are drawing up implementing rules in order to ensure the practical application of this instrument .
Council Decision 90 / 424 constitutes another instrument for Community financial support in case of disease outbreaks .
I must emphasise , however , that there are serious constraints .
Budgetary resources are very limited and priorities with other diseases have to be set .
So further thought is necessary .
I regret therefore that I am not at present in a position to accept amendments that refer to compensation through Decision 90 / 424 .
This is in particular the case for Amendments Nos 3 and 5 .
I agree , however , with the statement in Amendment No 2 saying that no compensation has been made payable to salmon farmers .
I am not able to comment on the availability of commercial insurance .
The Commission included in its proposal a possibility for vaccination of salmon .
The intention of this proposal is to introduce a tool for combating the disease in emergency situations .
I believe a vaccine should not be used for preventative purposes as suggested in Amendment No 4 .
Experience in other areas has shown that preventative vaccination has the adverse affect of creating healthy virus carriers .
Those could perpetuate an infection .
I therefore am not able to accept Amendment No 4 .
You also referred to the need for further scientific research on the nature of the disease .
I agree that such research is needed and I understand this is at present being organised in the United Kingdom .
I will follow very closely the results of this research and take it fully into account in future legislative proposals .
It must be further examined whether and how scientific research in other parts of the Community must be organised .
I also can partly accept the part of Amendment No 6 saying that Directive 93 / 53 should be amended as a result of scientific and technical evidence .
As I pointed out earlier , the available scientific evidence is that ISA is not a threat to health .
I can therefore agree to Amendment No 10 with the proviso that the words , and I quote , " of the highest possible standard " are replaced by " are safe " .
Fish escapes from aquaculture premises have been reported in the past and the virus has been found in wild stocks .
In this context , a number of scientific questions that can only be resolved through further research remain open .
It is for that reason that a careful approach towards the control of ISA is needed .
Diseased fish should not remain in the farms and I am prepared to look into the matter so as to avoid unnecessary shedding of a virus into the environment .
For that purpose , I propose to amend our initial proposal to provide that rural programmes established by the competent authority must be approved by the Commission .
This is to avoid excessive withdrawal periods .
I also propose to provide that the withdrawal of fish displaying clinical signs of disease should be immediate .
The procedures for setting additional control measures that already exist in Community legislation will be used to establish withdrawal schemes based on the state of health of the fish in order to minimise a possible environmental impact .
Bearing this in mind , I can agree to accept Amendment Nos 7 and 8 with a minor change to the latter .
I am also very sympathetic towards Amendment No 9 , but I believe that it can be better formulated so as to join , at the same time , environmental concerns and disease control and eradication strategies .
I do not feel in a position to accept Amendments Nos 12 and 13 .
It is my feeling that these amendments aim to achieve a zero risk .
I believe this objective is very difficult to achieve without closing down the fish farming sector concerned .
I look forward to Parliament ' s own views on these amendments and will take careful note if you believe that such an approach is the best way forward .
I can partly accept Amendment No 11 .
Finally , I would like to emphasise that we continue to strive to maintain a high level of health protection in accordance with our obligations under the Treaty .
I believe that measures that are proportionate to that objective is the way forward .
We remain committed to eradicating the disease , an objective that will be beneficial for both the environment and the salmon-farming sector .
I hope that in accepting our proposal the European Parliament acknowledges our commitment and I would be very grateful for that .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Byrne .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Protection of juvenile marine organisms
The proposal before us as outlined in the introduction is a very important one .
By now , my colleagues in the Fisheries Committee and indeed in the Parliament will be well aware of our commitment to technical conservation measures which are based on sound technical advice .
The body charged with giving this advice based on sound scientific data is the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna .
This body has four standing committees comprised of national experts dealing with research and statistics , finances and administration , compliance and conservation and management measures .
They have also four panels dealing with tropical tuna , with temperate tuna , the north and temperate tuna south and other species .
These panels are powered to initiate regulatory measures on species covered by the convention .
Proposals made by the panels are then presented to the Commission and the Commission in turn makes recommendations to the contracting parties .
These conditions are binding , however contracting parties may lodge objections within a six-month period .
The European Union is a contracting party and is obliged to embody such recommendations in Community law .
At a ICCAT meeting in November 1998 in Santiago de Compostela , changes were recommended to the rules relating to the landing of the minimum size of bluefin tuna .
ICCAT also made recommendations in 1974 , 1994 and 1996 .
As of now , it is illegal to land or sell bluefin of zero age and that of course is - in weight terms - less than 1.8 kilos .
At its recent meeting in November 1998 , the ICCAT standing committee on research and statistics was asked to perform a new assessment of the western Atlantic and eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna populations .
The information provided would then assist the organisation in considering developing and improving stock rebuilding plans .
It was intended that the study should indicate monthly closures to purse seine , in order that the closures would be effective for the conservation of bluefin stock .
Following all of the research , the meeting agreed to a selective closure rather than a general prohibition of fishing for tuna in the Mediterranean with purse seine during the period 1 August to 31 August .
It is important to protect the tuna fishery for future generations .
80 percent of it was landed by purse seine .
The Mediterranean is an important spawning area for bluefin tuna so therefore it is important that the necessary measures be taken to enhance the protection of juveniles .
The minimum size must be respected and technical measures must be implemented if we are to eliminate the zero age .
The Mediterranean , particularly in some zones , is an extremely important spawning area for the bluefin tuna which is of enormous commercial value .
This is why ICCAT recommended this closed zone in the Adriatic and toughened the conditions for catching zero-age fish .
As rightly said by the rapporteur , both measures are totally and fully justified which is why we have no alternative but to ask for their approval .
However , I also agree with Mr Gallagher who felt bound to indicate his frustration at the tardiness of the Commission in getting into gear and transforming the recommendations into Community law .
We are , for example , still waiting for the proposal for a regulation on banning the import of bluefin tuna from Honduras and Belize . The recommendation for this dates from 1996 .
Apparently , according to my information , the Fisheries Directorate-General sent a note last January to the Trade Directorate-General which is still on the preparatory work .
Four years to apply this ban on imports from countries known to favour flags of convenience is absolutely unacceptable .
We have listened to the Commission ' s explanations about the long internal process involved in transposing legislation . This has simply left us with an image of an exasperating bureaucracy .
Yet I have my doubts about the only proposal currently on the table to improve this process which would involve doing away with the Council and Parliament procedure .
It is clear that we must find a solution to this problem , either at the time of the Commission report on regional fisheries organisations or , if possible , before then .
I do not suppose that anybody in this House would object to the principle of protecting juveniles of marine organisms .
Indeed , it is often stated that one of the general objectives of the common fisheries policy shall be to protect and conserve living marine aquatic resources .
All laudable stuff .
There can also be no doubt that bluefin tuna is of enormous environmental and financial significance .
I do not know what the metric equivalent is .
So I support the findings of ICCAT and I support the principle of intergovernmental cooperation on environmental issues .
My concern though with this debate is that we are fiddling whilst Rome burns .
The common fisheries policy is not working .
For all of the high-minded talk about conservation , the reality is that the quota system is directly leading to an environmental disaster .
In mixed fisheries , you cannot discriminate .
The sheer volume of fish that are thrown back dead also means that any improvement in fisheries data is meaningless .
From a UK perspective there is also a deep-seated political objection to the CFP .
Many people now feel if this is federalism you can keep it .
Let me illustrate this with a topical example .
In February , Commission Regulation 394 / 2000 designed to protect Irish Sea cod stocks was issued .
It means that in Fleetwood , 30 inshore boats are tied up until the end of April .
The scientists and the fishermen both agree that something has to be done .
The CFP does not assist in conservation and is angering the British public to the point where we demand to re-establish control over our own territorial waters .
Our rapporteur ' s criticisms on this point have also therefore been heeded .
However , according to the SCRS study , the regulation establishing the 6.4 kg minimum has been poorly enforced in the East Atlantic and Mediterranean fisheries .
The WWF reports that , according to Italian , French and Spanish customs authorities , illegal bluefin fishing and landings of small fish are on the increase .
I cannot and do not want to go any further as we are pushed for time .
However , I must again congratulate our rapporteur , Mr Gallagher .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Fischler .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Fishing and the environment ( Bergen 13-14 March 1997 ) : 2nd report
Mr President , Mr Fischler , my report concerns the vital integration of environmental and fisheries issues , as discussed at the ministerial meeting in Bergen .
To fail in this respect would mean food for today but hunger for tomorrow , not just for our fishermen and the people of Europe but , more seriously , for humanity as a whole .
The common fisheries policy is theoretically very demanding and very strict in this respect , perhaps more so than most people , both Europeans and non-Europeans , would believe .
We have also asked Parliament ' s own DG IV to prepare a systematic study of these measures for the Committee on Fisheries .
The revision of the common fisheries policy in 2002 is the biggest time-limited challenge facing us . We must completely overhaul , modernise or , if you prefer , update this policy in its entirety .
I would stress that the whole of the CFP must be revised , particularly the part on the protection of fish stocks .
This is the basis of my request to the European Commission and the services of this House .
I do not believe that the state of stocks and the current scandalous system of discards are a good example of the policy ' s effectiveness which must therefore , in my opinion , be significantly improved .
I do not want to and cannot go into too much detail , Mr President , given the time constraints and also the interpreters ' fees .
However , I will just remind you that the meeting in Bergen showed very significantly that a proper policy on the sea must be created .
These initiatives , together with effective systems of control , are the key aspects for the future of fisheries .
However , we do not have to resort to extreme solutions , as Mr Katiforis initially suggested in his draft report .
I am referring to this now because I will not have time to speak later on .
I must point out in this respect that it was the numerous amendments tabled and approved in our committee and the flexibility shown by Mr Katiforis which enabled his report to be approved by our committee .
Maritime transport , industrial and urban pollution and waste also have negative effects on fisheries whose problems do not just come from overfishing .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Fischler .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Fisheries management and nature conservation in the marine environment
The problems for resource management and environmental protection in the fishery sector have been considered by this House many times in the past .
This particular communication from the Commission forms part of the Commission ' s overall strategy of improving the integration of environmental considerations into other Community policies .
The alternative to successful management is the economic decline of the fisheries industry as stocks dwindle and demand for fish products is increasingly met by imports .
I understand I have been described in a Spanish newspaper as an enemy of the fishing industry because I have said such things .
Of course , I am only an enemy of the fishing industry as much as anybody who recommends to some people not to saw off the branch on which they are sitting .
This is an unwise policy .
All of the above priorities will be pursued equally at both the Community level and in the various international fora in which the Community participates .
They should also be pursued in the context of the bilateral and multilateral agreements which the Community negotiates .
Whilst the communication reveals the Commission ' s worthy intentions in this field , it is also revealing as to what activity is lacking and where management and control improvements can be made .
One can quote from the communication .
Over-exploitation is so severe in Community fisheries that the scientific authorities have recommended rapid reductions of the exploitation levels of up to 40 percent .
That appeared in the communication published last July .
These are examples of the fishery sector facing severe problems due to over-exploitation .
What can be done to alleviate the damage done to fishing communities ?
The first consideration must be to recognise that Community legislation must be reinforced and control mechanism procedures enhanced .
Secondly , the principles of such Community legislation should also be extended to international agreements to which the Community is a party .
Thirdly , the European Union should undertake to enhance its monitoring and prevention of extensive pollution prevalent in Community waters and which is harmful to marine life including fishery resources .
More controls would be placed to prevent oil spillages such as that of the Erika in the Bay of Biscay and also deliberate dumping of waste oils .
Recognition should also be given to the pressures which the delicate marine aqua system faces from urbanisation of coastal areas .
Such pressures are greatest in Europe .
In this context one can also mention the problems of discards of unwanted catches , fishing gear which destroys the seabed and the destruction of natural habitats by over intensive aquacultures .
A quota management system such as that existing in New Zealand since 1986 is one possible alternative .
The property right that has been created in such a system is the right to fish - not the fish themselves .
Such a market organisation can reap better long-term prospects for the fishing industry .
At present dear colleagues , we can never be fully informed about the vast ecosystem that is the sea , nor about the multitude of factors which affect the stock of resources in this aqua system .
The fishery sectors in Europe face serious problems and I am a great supporter of the fishery sector .
I therefore call upon the Commission and the Council to find the information , the political will to provide genuine long-term solutions for fishing communities and not depend upon short-termism .
I recommend the report to the House .
The Environment Committee is generally pleased with the Commission ' s communication and we are also pleased that the Fisheries Committee adopted all our amendments .
It is now widely accepted that fishing has effects on marine environment which are much more wide-ranging and pervasive than simple capture of target species with a little bit of by-catch .
We welcome the intention of the Commission to integrate environmental protection into other policies of the EU including the common fisheries policy .
After all , the treaties have stipulated since 1992 that the precautionary principle and environmental protection should be integrated into Community policies .
The UN Fish Stocks Agreement of 1995 would serve as a very good model in this regard .
One aspect that was missing from the communication though is the aspect of surveillance and control .
All the good policies and regulations in the world will not lead to conservation without an effective system to ensure that the rules are respected .
Control is a Member State competence and the Council has recently adopted a list of serious infringements aimed at coordinating to some extent the severity with which similar violations are viewed in different countries .
This is a good step forward , but as the Commission and the Fisheries Committee continually point out , much improvement is needed in the control programmes of all Member States .
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report .
Mr President , fishing is an extremely important economic activity which involves major investment . Most of its jobs are provided under fairly tough conditions throughout entire Community regions .
However , some people ' s view of the fisheries sector can be extremely simplistic , ranging from mere folklore to the insult of regarding fishermen as insensitive pirates and predators .
I regret to say that this report , due to its link with the environment , seems to have provided an occasion for those with this type of view to introduce their own particular misconceptions .
The relationship between fisheries and marine ecosystems is obvious .
Yet it is very wide-ranging and involves many other factors including pollution and maritime transport .
To blame fishermen alone for environmental damage is both unfair and wrong .
Our committee avoided embarrassing itself by making a series of amendments of which I tabled 14 , many of which were accepted by the rapporteur for which I thank him sincerely .
Just when we thought the discussions had ended , a number of diverse amendments have been tabled in plenary which I ask you to vote against unreservedly .
According to these , for example , the meagre fisheries budget should have to finance artistic heritage or encourage tourism at sea .
As I have said many times before , the fisheries sector is more a victim than the cause of damage to the marine ecosystem and tomorrow we will be able to confirm this in the debate on the Erika .
Mr Katiforis has certainly not lacked the courage to set out the measures which , in his opinion , could help to improve and conserve the natural resources of the sea .
I agree with the rapporteur that the European fisheries and environmental policies should be better coordinated .
However , what we are basically missing is the political courage and determination of the Commission and the Member States to take decisions and apply the current regulations .
Maritime transport , employment and energy should be integrated together with fisheries and the environment .
As for the Structural Funds , certain examples could be mentioned but I will leave this for another day .
The European Parliament is aware of the limited resources and the need for responsible fisheries .
The Commission and Member States should be meticulous in respecting the TACs and the quotas fixed in accordance with objective scientific criteria . The same yardstick should be used for everyone .
As Mr Katiforis says , discards are a waste of resources which we cannot accept .
Twenty million tonnes of unwanted catches are being thrown back .
The fleet must therefore use increasingly selective fishing gear .
We socialists consider that to defend the common fisheries policy is to defend a regulated and controlled fisheries sector .
It is therefore essential that the Commission launches an information campaign on the CFP with this message .
Without a common fisheries policy there can only be lack of control , damage to the environment and an unsustainable economic activity .
Mr President , I very much appreciate this report by Mr Katiforis on fisheries management and nature conservation in the marine environment .
We should therefore very carefully monitor pollution from industrial activity , but also from domestic activity .
I do not believe that ejecting emissions at sea , and particularly in a closed environment like the Mediterranean , when we want to clean up purification plants , is a good way to clean up water .
They say that if you want something done , it is best to do it yourself and so the users of the sea , the fishermen , must be very attentive .
So we must practise selective fishing .
Aquaculture should also be monitored .
Let us therefore take great care with work in a closed environment .
Ladies and gentlemen , I would ask you to come and take part in this discussion .
I would like to touch briefly on these amendments .
We welcome the report ' s rejection of the idea originally put forward by the rapporteur of creating a taxation system , as this would be impossible to implement and enforce for all the Member States .
In effect , this practice is responsible for a high death rate and is therefore incompatible with good fisheries management .
More specifically , with regard to fisheries management in the Mediterranean , we are all aware that fishing in the Mediterranean is not governed by provisions on TACs .
And just as well , in my view .
In our opinion , the possibility put forward in the explanatory statement of this report of setting TACs in the Mediterranean is therefore inappropriate .
Lastly , we would vote for the amendments tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left .
There is therefore a need for an in-depth analysis of the relationship between fishing and the environment .
A reduction in the fishing capacity and in pressure from the fishing industry on fish stocks is not necessarily compatible with maintaining an outdated fleet and would limit modernisation .
In addition to providing more appropriate conditions of safety and hygiene , the use of more modern vessels could also contribute to reducing certain major factors .
Firstly , fishery production and the conservation of marine life and resources are two sides of the same coin .
Shipowners and fishermen from the countries most active in fishing are more concerned than anyone about respecting their means of living , for without it , the future of this sector cannot be guaranteed .
Secondly , it is true that a policy of preserving the marine environment must be practised both in Community seas and in international waters or those belonging to third countries .
This particularly applies , however , to our own coastal waters .
Given this context , I would like to tell you about something that happened a few days ago .
Can I first of all congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report .
Conservation is something that I hear on many occasions and a lot of people pay lip service to it .
A lot of people are all in favour of it until it arrives on their own doorstep .
It is all very well to talk about conservation and I agree with it totally .
In actual fact they have had a moratorium imposed upon them without any recompense , without any real negotiation or discussion .
It has been imposed upon them that they cannot fish for about an 11 to 12 week period .
It does not matter whether you come from Galicia , it does not matter whether you are from Northern Ireland or whether you are from Scotland .
That chasm exists and we in Brussels have not been able to cross that divide .
And we have got to take on board the views of the fishermen .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Fischler .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Bankruptcy procedures
Mr President , I think we all agree that a European legal area must be created .
We also all agree that there should be harmonisation in a field that is marked by the great disparity of our legal systems and , what is more , concepts .
The very word bankruptcy , the legal concept of bankruptcy , does not cover the same accounting concept in each of the Member States of the Union .
We therefore all agree on the established facts , and the draft regulation and the report are going in the right direction .
If I may , however , just make a few comments on the method .
The first is to establish equivalence , saying : in the final analysis , bankruptcy in France is the same thing as bankruptcy in England or in Germany .
The second way is to recreate a law ex nihilo , that is to say , to harmonise the systems and completely overhaul all the concepts and legal systems in each of the Member States .
That is not the route that has been taken .
The third route that has been taken is in the end to superimpose above the existing systems , which are not touched , a real embryo of Community law of collective procedures and procedures for companies in difficulty .
This is a good thing , moreover , and the result has probably exceeded what the authors had hoped for .
But at this stage I should like to make an observation , which is not technical , but more philosophical and taken from practice .
It is that bankruptcy is experienced within the European Union , in the majority of States , as an absolutely definitive event for the person it affects .
Today , in many Member States , that is not possible .
When we deal with the positive side of the single market and create a common internal market , we must also deal with the darker side , namely bankruptcies .
I consider that we are experiencing an historic moment in this regard .
I congratulate the rapporteur for having so quickly progressed further with his report .
I am , moreover , proud that my own country has been involved in tabling this regulation which we now hope will swiftly be adopted by the Council .
I think it is an important step we are taking , even if each of the national systems is not especially influenced by it .
To the rapporteur ' s regret , I must unfortunately point out that our Group cannot support Amendment No 3 because we consider that it restricts creditors ' legal position and impairs their legal protection .
With regard to Amendment No 6 , we tabled a similar amendment in the negotiations in committee .
I am a little surprised that you in the Group of the Party of European Socialists did not support it then .
We shall now support your Amendment No 6 , but I wonder why you did not support our own amendment in committee .
I also hope that we produce some insight in this context and that we shall be able to compare which procedures are quickest and best in the various countries .
.
For better or for worse , the fact that businesses become insolvent will become an increasingly common occurrence in our daily economic life .
This is why it is important to try to find a legal frame of reference which can adapt to the new requirements of a global economy .
The Commission considers that this regulation makes no substantive amendment to the text of the Convention .
As far back as 1981 , the Commission had already stated its position in favour of clearly adopting the principle of unitary insolvency proceedings .
Furthermore , this view was accepted in the Commission ' s proposals on a parallel procedure concerning the liquidation of businesses .
The 1995 Convention , on the other hand , authorises the filing of secondary proceedings , thereby creating situations which are exceptions to the general rule that the Commission would like to see accepted .
Following the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam , the Commission would therefore have preferred that a new text be adopted , one which would specifically enshrine the principle of unitary proceedings .
Consequently , the Commission has refrained from presenting an amendment . Instead , it has limited itself to focusing its opinions on institutional issues .
With regard to the centre of main interests of a company or of a legal person , this idea is clearly defined in Article 3 .
In all other cases that have not been specifically addressed , we feel that the reference made in Recital 13 should be sufficient .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Vitorino .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
( The sitting was suspended at 12.05 a.m. )
Shipwreck of the Erika
The next item is the oral question ( B5-0011 / 2000 ) by Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna , on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries , to the Commission , on the shipwreck of the Erika .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , firstly I want to warmly thank Mr Fischler for being here today .
Our President told us yesterday that the Commissioner would be unable to attend today due to prior commitments .
On behalf of the Committee on Fisheries , I must highlight our concerns about the shipwreck of the tanker Erika .
There are two political reasons why our committee and myself as its chairman must speak out about this issue .
Firstly , we must show the Commission , the Council and the Member States that this House cannot and will not forget about this serious incident .
Secondly , we must focus today on one specific aspect of this terrible environmental disaster , namely its effect on the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the affected regions .
The epilogue to this disaster must surely be the urgent adoption of measures to minimise the damage and to prevent this happening again in the future .
Enough regrets and thoughts have been expressed about this event .
We must now get down to adopting measures , Commissioner .
Firstly , efficient controls are needed in Community waters and ports in order to ensure safety in maritime transport , particularly where oil and dangerous goods are involved .
Flags of convenience must also be specifically monitored and regulated in maritime transport , particularly as they do so much damage to the fisheries which we have taken to calling ' responsible fisheries ' .
Access into Community waters of vessels flying flags of convenience which do not meet Community safety standards must be controlled .
We expect concrete action from the European Commission . The fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the affected areas of Brittany and the Vende are particularly important , well-developed and prestigious .
How can consumer confidence in products from this area be regained ?
How can those affected be compensated ?
This is a very serious problem which the European Union , as an economic , commercial , industrial and fishing power , must tackle .
We must get to work and lead the way in these issues which are damaging our environment and destroying industries and occupations .
We must adopt preventative measures which can stop disasters like this from happening in the future .
This is the essence of my oral question on behalf of all the members of the Committee on Fisheries .
We hope to hear specific proposals from the Commission , with plenty of action and no more regrets .
This House will today approve a very important and appropriate joint motion for a resolution tabled by several groups .
Mr President , the shipwreck of the Erika off the coast of Brittany on 12 December caused an oil slick whose effects on the environment will be felt for years .
In addition to destroying natural resources , this accident has had a serious impact on certain economic sectors , particularly those dependent on fisheries .
With 20 000 tonnes of crude oil left in the holds of the sunken vessel , the situation could still deteriorate .
The regions affected are outlying ones with an unstable economic balance . They have been profoundly affected by this oil slick which , unfortunately , is not an isolated event .
The main resources of these and neighbouring regions are those granted by nature , which is nowadays too often being punished by man ' s activities .
These events could be prevented with more care and control by the public authorities .
Prevention is better than cure or so the saying goes .
Surely the budget would agree , as prevention is much cheaper than the cost of disasters like these .
Mr Fischler says that he always comes to the House when asked .
As this House indicated in its first resolution on 20 January , the needs of the severely affected fisheries , ostreiculture and tourism industries must be taken into account .
We therefore now call upon the Commission to urgently adopt measures to help the fisheries sector by means of special funds .
Galicia and Brittany now have the common ground of having suffered from oil slicks .
Please let this be the last disaster of its type and let us learn all possible lessons from this .
We must urgently amend our legislation and close the loopholes which keep allowing these terrible disasters to happen .
The polluter pays principle is both necessary and appropriate .
It is time that polluters started to pay because , up to now , it has been those affected and taxpayers who have paid , and they have not just paid but cleaned up the affected areas as well .
I am therefore delighted at Mr Fischler ' s response , particularly his recognition of the need to apply retroactive measures and to give a rapid response to the applications submitted .
I wish to put two questions to the Commissioner .
Parliament has passed a resolution calling for the polluter pays principle to be applied in this instance and for both the shipowners and the owners of the cargo to be liable .
The question for the Commissioner is really whether these principles can actually be applied and whether we will get any money by way of compensation from these people .
It is recognised in that White Paper that liability is only effective where the polluter can be identified , where the damage can be quantified and where a clear causal connection can be made between the two .
The Erika incident could not illustrate the point more clearly because it sums up exactly what that White Paper is seeking to address .
This question really would therefore seem to be a perfect measure of how to deal with problems of this kind in future .
Will it really address the concern or will , in practice , in the case of maritime accidents involving ships on the high seas , the polluter once again escape from having to pay for the damage they cause .
We are pleased to hear the Commissioner announce the urgent need to act and to offer compensation , and for this to be backdated .
We further deplore the system of flags of convenience with regard to both merchant vessels and fishing boats .
Finally , we were shocked to learn that the cargo was extremely carcinogenic , with a polyaromatic hydrocarbon content of more than 1 000 parts per million .
This means that the 15 000 tonnes of cargo released into the sea include 15 tonnes of highly toxic products .
This is not acceptable .
We only found out too late and , as a result , medical inspection must be provided , paying special attention to the volunteers who dedicated themselves to restoring the environment .
Finally , we think it absolutely essential to pay particular attention to preventing such risks , as well as to scientific research work in order to avoid and eliminate damage .
A great many proposals have been made which warrant investigation .
Solutions cannot be found at the last minute , when the disaster is already in progress . Consequently , the bulk of the action must be taken beforehand .
Mr President , over two months after the wreck of the Erika , pollution of the coasts , which have already been cleaned once , is still continuing .
While reiterating my solidarity with all the victims of this , I should like to salute the dedication of the workers , professionals and volunteers , who are still involved in cleaning the polluted beaches .
Thanks to the grass-roots involvement , which this House furthered by organising a debate and adopting a resolution on 20 January , an initial raft of measures has been announced .
The French Government has initiated a discussion and made proposals to strengthen maritime safety , particularly by fighting against the phenomenon of flags of convenience and by implementing much more extensive inspection .
We must also demand that the parties truly responsible be made to pay the costs incurred due to the pollution .
So , yes , Total Fina must provide the financial resources to contribute to the repair of ecological , economic and social damage and to compensate the people affected by the disaster .
The French State has released funds for compensating damage .
I feel , however , that the European Union has so far not actually come up with any expression of Community solidarity at the requisite level .
Specific compensation should be provided for the fishermen and shellfish farmers who have suffered considerable loss of income and who face having to invest considerable sums in order to repair everything and regain consumer confidence .
I was pleased to hear the statement which Commissioner Fischler has just made , and I take careful note of the commitments he made before this House .
Cakes of tar are still washing in along 500 km of the Atlantic coastline on a daily basis .
Curiously , the exact composition of the cargo has still not been clarified .
The ecological disaster is a major one , possibly unprecedented in scale .
Large-scale degassing proliferates and the 16 000 tonnes of tar remaining in the wreck at a depth of 120 m present a major risk of fresh pollution .
All workers in the fishing , fish farming and aquaculture sectors have already been hit hard .
The chief victims today are the shellfish farmers who were once the most successful producers in Europe .
The frontline victims are the producers or freight forwarders banned in the Vende and Loire-Atlantique regions .
As regards fishing proper , passive gear fishing is currently the hardest hit .
After shellfish , the slump is now affecting crustacean sales .
The two principle resources of the Atlantic shore , fishing and tourism , both closely interrelated , have both been seriously affected .
There is a danger that the season will be lost , resulting in an extremely serious crisis by the end of the year .
The fact that Parliament is presenting a new resolution , one to which our Group has made a significant contribution , is therefore perfectly justifiable .
It emphasises a number of points deemed crucial at grass roots level .
The first point is that the polluter must accept his liability in full .
The second principle is the ' polluter pays ' principle .
According to our resolution , the polluter ' s liability must extend to fishing , fish farming and aquaculture industries and businesses .
If the FIPOL ceiling is insufficient , and it has clearly been underestimated , then it must be raised .
Our resolution calls for this .
If the increase is not enough then the polluter should pay the balance .
Commissioner , the stricken people await tangible expressions of solidarity at European level .
Our resolution calls upon the Commission to take the necessary steps to assist in repairing the damage caused in the fishing industry affected by the consequences of the disaster .
Maritime Europe and the CFP must today demonstrate that , in addition to imposing constraints on fishermen , it is not unfamiliar with the concept of solidarity .
The European Union must also participate in the restoration of the wetland and coastal environments affected , whose biological value is important to the Union as a whole .
Mr Fischler has just told us that he would welcome France ' s requests . I am pleased to hear it .
We must act as a catalyst in this crucial issue of maritime pollution .
Twenty years after the Amoco Cadiz disaster laxness and irresponsibility still reign supreme in Europe in matters of maritime safety , resulting in yet more oil slicks .
This time , we must not let inertia win the day .
A basis for maritime safety must be drawn up speedily , respecting the principle of subsidiarity , and we must at long last put an end to this downward spiral of widespread irresponsibility .
Mr President , the economy of the western Atlantic coastline has been devastated , polluted by oil from the Erika .
European citizens find it hard to understand why Europe accepts conditions which the Americans refuse and why Europe , normally so quick to pass environmental legislation , has until now blocked any measures to do with maritime safety .
Finally , the Commission must reintroduce an appropriate budget line for ' natural disasters involving Member States ' , and make the regions affected eligible for Structural Funds .
What is the Commission ' s view of these proposals ?
What decisions has the Commission already taken and what decisions does it plan to take ?
How did the Commission follow up the resolution which the European Parliament adopted on 20 January 2000 ?
We have not , thus far , seen any practical action whatsoever .
Mr President , recent history and the Erika shipwreck , in particular , have shown that our coasts are under constant threat from shipping disasters .
The debate on preventing these disasters has already been held in Strasbourg and it highlighted the importance of a European plan for maritime safety .
In addition to prevention , however , we should not be blind to the ramifications of such disasters , not least the ecological ramifications .
Many hundreds of kilometres of French coastline have been polluted .
Thousands of fish and birds have been killed .
It cannot be ruled out that certain habitats may have been permanently damaged , and the restoration of the environment is often a long drawn-out process .
We must learn from past experiences .
Shipping disasters such as that involving the Erika could well strike again off the Dutch , English , Spanish or Belgian coasts .
The regulations which we are drawing up today in Europe should be regarded as a precedent .
We should therefore be strict with the polluters and generous to the victims .
There are two aspects , the first being the environmental angle .
From this point of view , this fits in with the wish of the French to see their presidency characterised by regulations which work towards increasing safety .
The secondary impact , however , is proving to be on the economy , the primary impact being environmental and only the second economic , as many Members have stated .
Shellfish farming , fishing , oyster farming and fish farming are today seriously affected , for the effects of the oil slick have been compounded by the storm damage affecting many areas .
Unfortunately , these sectors have been devastated : they have first to rebuild and then , perhaps the most difficult thing , to regain consumer confidence .
Confronted with this situation , the inhabitants of Brittany , the Vende and Charente , as well as the forestry workers in other regions , await a signal from the European Union .
I took very careful note of Commissioner Fischler ' s remarks , perhaps the most practical suggestions we have heard to date .
There have been many declarations of sympathy and solidarity , and many announcements , admittedly , but now it is time for expectations to be met with a tangible display of European solidarity .
These spills , in addition to causing irreparable ecological damage , have devastated local industries .
Effective compensation is essential .
The companies responsible , the ship and the cargo owners must pay up for their negligence .
The current compensation funds are inadequately funded and this was all too apparent in the case of the Braer disaster where the Shetland Islands fishing industry was inadequately compensated for their losses .
We must learn from past experience and make sure that the industries affected by the Braer spill can be rebuilt .
Mr President , today , once again , it is necessary to discuss the Erika disaster , two and a half months after it occurred , because its tragic consequences are far from over .
It is actually not so much a matter of improving safety checks on these flags of convenience , as stipulated in the resolution , as actually working right now to eliminate their existence .
This is the only solution to ensure that seafarers ' living and working conditions are satisfactory , that they are covered by effective legislation and social protection , and that fishing operations and the environment are respected .
Parliament adopts a resolution after every maritime disaster .
Generally it puts forward positive technical measures , some of which are adopted in directives .
If they were applied , they would in fact serve to counter the idea of cutting costs to the minimum , a policy which is maintained through flags of convenience .
It was stated at this conference that disasters account for 5 % to 10 % of oil pollution .
This may be very concentrated and create many problems , but it is industry which is responsible for 60 % of pollution . And , by way of an indication , 10 % is caused by natural pollution .
I would like to advocate this .
I want to thank Commissioner Fischler for his answer to the oral question tabled by our committee .
He has given us some important information . The Commissioners who appear before this House armed with specific and important information are always to be thanked .
With regard to the specific case of the Erika , measures are being taken and action is being coordinated with the French authorities .
Our main concern has been that we do not end up discussing this type of event again .
Preventative measures are the answer to the question of what can we do . It has been said that the Commission will meet to adopt a range of technical and legal measures .
This is the right way to go .
These measures are very welcome and the Committee on Fisheries will monitor these very closely so that we do not have to spend more time in this House regretting such disasters .
I have received 5 motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 42 ( 2 ) .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
EC-Israel trade agreement
The next item is the oral question ( B5-0012 / 2000 ) by Mrs Morgantini and others , to the Commission , on the irregular application of the EC-Israel trade agreement .
What we are about to discuss is really very simple : the respect , application and monitoring of the agreements subscribed to by the European Union , and compliance with the Treaties and international standards to which it adheres .
It is very simple , but in this world the simplest things are very often the hardest things to achieve .
At the same time , we also have reason to believe that the Commission is failing to attend to one of its primary functions : guardianship of the Community Treaties .
I will mention but a few , which are produced in the Golan Heights and the occupied territories : wine and other products .
Israel can be certain that Europe is in favour of its security and stability , but it cannot ask us to be party to such grave violations .
The Palestinians know that the European Union is in favour of the consolidation of their State and their rights , but they have no proof of this .
I shall try to provide you with the additional information you are now seeking on this matter .
The EC consequently takes the view that there is absolutely no lack of clarity about the specifications given in his written answer by Commissioner Patten when he said , and I quote in the original English :
" ... as already explained in the communication , Israeli settlements or occupied territories cannot be considered by the Community as part of Israeli territory for implementation of the EC-Israel agreement .
This issue is highly sensitive , in as far as it relates to the broader question of borders , to Israelis and Palestinians alike " .
We have repeatedly stated this position to the Israeli authorities at every official meeting between the Commission and the relevant Israeli minister , the most recent of which was held on 21 January .
On that occasion , the Prime Minister , Shimon Peres , attended a meeting with Romano Prodi , the President of the Commission , and with Commissioner Patten .
It was furthermore widely known , as you have just said , Mrs Morgantini , that Israel ' s interpretation of the territory to which the agreement applies does not match our own .
The Commission believes , however , that our interpretation is completely unambiguous .
Hence , the relevance of your second question on the effectiveness of the verification system .
In our written answer to you , the Commission mentioned simplifying the procedure for determining the origins of a product .
Of course , this does not mean that this alone will solve the problem or , in other words , that simplifying this procedure would automatically lead to a clearer indication of the product ' s origin .
With regard to the new measures , the Commission has , at official meetings with the Israeli authorities , discussed in great detail the issue of the application of the agreement , for which there are clearly defined procedures .
In January of this year , the Israeli authorities suggested setting up a tripartite working group comprising representatives of the Palestinian authorities , of the Israeli Government and of the Commission .
Mr President , the difficulties faced by the peace process in the Middle East are well known .
As for the political obstacles to be tackled , these are all too apparent .
The weight of the political problem is in fact so great that it could discourage us when considering an obstacle such as the incorrect application of this trade agreement , which in principle is only a legal problem .
Specifically and regrettably , in a conflict like the Israeli or Palestinian conflict , everything ends up being politicised if appropriate measures are not taken in time to prevent this happening .
He said that this issue was not on the agenda as this only concerned political issues .
Frankly , I believe that the Commission must act if it is proven that preferential access to Community markets is being gained by products originating from these settlements .
The Union has played an invaluable part in this process , in its capacity as the primary source of economic aid to the region .
The main reason for the problems of implementing trade agreements between the European Union and Israel , as has already been said , is the intractable problem of frontiers .
The Israeli interpretation is not the same as the Union ' s , as the Commissioner mentioned .
At all events , it is a process currently under negotiation , a difficult one , but one that we all wish to see succeed .
The settlement process must proceed by the only possible avenue , i.e. that of dialogue .
A tripartite working group , comprising Palestinian and Israeli specialists as well as those of the Commission , should thus be set up .
In this context , we may hope that the parties involved will manage to settle their differences and establish a creative solution for this transitional period .
As was the case in Europe fifty years ago , the social and economic development of the Middle East is an essential condition for peace .
We therefore have some expertise to bring to bear on the subject and we are particularly well placed to gauge the extent of what has already been achieved .
Hopefully the Israelis and Palestinians will demonstrate the same optimistic faith in goodwill .
Mr President , Commissioner , the peace process in the Middle East is an extremely delicate matter .
It will only be possible for the exact borders of the state of Israel , the only democracy in that region , to be universally recognised once these negotiations have proved to be a success .
The trade agreement between the European Union and Israel , which equally fails to define the territory of the state of Israel , should be implemented against this background .
In addition , there is a significant connection between the economic activities within Israel and those on Palestinian territory .
With this in mind , the Paris Protocol to the Oslo agreements also provides for a customs " envelope " comprising the state of Israel and the Palestinian Authority .
Furthermore , the Commission and said parties have agreed to set up a joint working party to discuss issues concerning products ' countries of origin .
The Palestinian economy in particular is said to suffer under unilateral EU measures .
Potential investors in this area have already indicated that they would withdraw if joint ventures were no longer given preference .
Mr President , in general terms this House shares the concern expressed in Mrs Morgantini ' s question .
Commissioner Vitorino has clarified the Commission ' s position and , in my opinion , has responded adequately to the concerns raised here . However , I feel that we should not leave the matter there .
Secondly , it is in the interests of both parties to ensure the economic development of the region and to take decisive action to reduce the serious imbalances in the distribution of wealth in the area .
I have to say that I am satisfied with Commissioner Vitorino ' s response : I feel that , on the whole , his speech did respond to the points raised in the question .
This , in my opinion , is the lesson to be learned from such a long-drawn-out affair .
I feel that the two Presidents were right not to include this point in their agendas : there is a time and place for everything and , of course , the priorities are different at different levels .
I feel that it was right for the two highest representatives of Parliament and the Commission to tackle the most sensitive issues of the peace process which , as we are aware , is still running into difficulties .
Mr President , Commissioner , it is true that the present trade agreement between Israel and the EC is ambiguous .
It is also very difficult to establish the origin of the products in question .
I can therefore only concur that it is desirable for some light to be shed on the matter soon .
There are , nonetheless , a number of other important factors which we need to take into consideration .
Indeed , we are all agreed that the recent revival of the peace negotiations must be encouraged and not hampered .
Israel and the Palestinians are currently involved in intense negotiations concerning their future borders .
Any attempt by anyone , including by any third party , to define - let alone impose - the territorial area to be adopted for trading purposes is therefore premature .
I am pleased that the Commissioner shares this view .
Hopefully , this working party will find a temporary solution to the problem within the existing legal framework without jeopardising the peace process .
For this peace process deserves absolute priority , and we in the European Community and in Europe should not put any obstacle whatsoever in the way of this process .
There seems to be remarkable consensus in the House today but I would like to make a few points .
Here in the Parliament trade in the Middle East has always been a political flashpoint .
Borders are being shut down , sometimes arbitrarily , and sometimes following a terrorist attack .
On one of my many visits to the area , I have seen flowers and strawberries rotting , lying in the streets of Gaza and being eaten by the donkeys while their Palestinian producers look on helplessly in despair .
But it is not just an issue of closed borders .
Goods do flow freely from these territories , goods produced in Israeli settlements in the occupied territories .
We have an international agreement and it is being transgressed .
It is our responsibility to ensure that the terms of the agreement are respected and upheld by all .
Israeli customs can be given a very long time , up to ten months , to reply to any queries and the import verification procedure can be totally unproductive .
We should be requiring deposits on all goods imported from Israel until we are able to ensure that Israel will stop abusing the agreement .
I have a couple of questions , Commissioner .
Has the Commission received from any Member States ' customs services documents certified by Israeli customs that represent specific settlement locations in the occupied territories falling within the scope of the agreement ?
And is the Commission aware whether they apply that territorial clause correctly or not ?
In short , Commissioner , this is not an issue which should be treated as a matter for peace-process-related political debate .
It is , in fact , an international agreement and a trade agreement .
Mr President , it is universally recognised that rules must be observed . It is also universally recognised that our partners must also be made to observe the same rules .
Everyone understands that there is concern about this today , but I would not like our demand to be regarded as selectively applicable .
Nor would I like our oral question to be perceived as an indictment .
Our demand is not selectively applicable and the Commission should therefore regard this as a suggestion to look into the use of Community funds in regions around Israel .
And because the Commission ' s investigation is not , and must not be perceived as , an indictment , I should like to mention two points which are central to the balance of our approach .
Firstly , anyone familiar with the region knows that the future of the Palestinian economy is intimately linked to the economic cooperation agreement with Israel .
The Oslo protocol envisages an integrated customs authority to encompass both Israel and the Palestinian Authority .
Anything liable to separate the two economies would have a serious effect on cooperation between Israel and Palestine , including joint ventures , Palestinian sub-contractors and exporters .
Secondly , nowhere in the agreements between Israel and the European Union are the frontiers of the State of Israel defined .
The negotiations in progress between Israel and the Palestinian Authority are specifically concerned with defining these frontiers .
I support the cautious approach which the Commissioner has taken and is taking in this matter , firstly because this is not a simple issue .
It is complicated ; it is always difficult to determine the origin of any goods and where they come from .
Therefore , because it is not an easy and simple issue , we have to be cautious and we have to be careful .
There is I think one final reason why the Commission should be supported .
We are at a delicate stage in relation to the peace agreement .
You have a government in Israel which wants peace and wants to secure peace and if you proceed in a rash and rapid way then you could jeopardise the success of that peace agreement .
Mr President , it is , of course , unacceptable for breaches of our trade agreement with Israel to be concealed or tolerated .
The EU must now choose between basing its relations with Israel and Palestine on the standards of international law , thereby strengthening the basis of the peace process , and showing disdain for international law .
The choice ought to be simple .
International law prescribes that trade agreements should be established with countries and regions which we recognise and not with disputed territories .
The Commission must guarantee that these things will be done .
Commissioner Vitorino ' s contribution offered some hope that they would be .
The peace process in the Middle East must be given a chance . It can only be founded upon international law .
It is the EU ' s responsibility to contribute to this .
The truth of the situation is that the approach adopted by the Commission on this subject is to seek to obtain the support and agreement of all parties involved in the process .
And what the population of the region is interested in , above all , is peace , and their own economic prosperity .
Lastly , I would like to say that we feel this approach remains true to the principles and the values of the agreement , which we feel is sufficiently clear in legal terms .
Commissioner , I recognise the delicacy of the issue at the moment but I did ask you a couple of specific questions .
Thank you very much , Mrs Banotti .
The debate is closed .
( The sitting was suspended at 10.40 a.m. for the vote and resumed at 11 a.m. )
VOTE
Mr President , in my view , the position is very clear following the debate we had yesterday with Commissioner Diamantopoulou and the President-in-Office of the Council , and Parliament should vote on the original text .
Hence we withdraw our signature to Amendment No 4 .
Thank you very much .
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
Paragraph 3 :
Mr President , I think there is a mistranslation in the Swedish text .
It would have been a turn-up for the books if the European Left had expressed its concern about a possible increase in taxes on income from capital .
In fact , we voted as we wished to do , but there was a mistranslation in the Swedish text , and I wish this to be noted .
We are assured that all language versions correspond to the original version .
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
Joint motion for a resolution ( B5-0181 / 2000 ) on the shipwreck of the .
( Parliament adopted the joint resolution )
President .
That concludes the vote .
- Attwooll report ( A5-0038 / 2000 )
We know that the Commission is going to reform the common fisheries policy shortly .
This proposal for a Council Regulation is the first in a series which will make it possible to draw up this reform .
The collection and management of the fisheries data is needed to conduct the common fisheries policy .
This data must be reliable , drawn up independently and accepted by all the operators in the industry , politicians and those individuals responsible for the application of this CFP .
The text of the proposal for a Regulation has been amended quite extensively in the Committee on Fisheries .
All the members of our Group voted in favour of these amendments , both in committee and in Parliament .
Amendment No 1 serves to clarify the text considerably .
Specifically , the data collected must not be intended for purely scientific use .
Scientists must process this data and pass it on to the relevant political decision-making authorities .
It is , however , crucial for the data collection method to be carried out in a scientifically justified manner .
Amendment No 2 amends the initial Commission proposal .
What the Commission proposal suggests is drawing up extremely detailed studies of individual vessels and individual businesses .
Regarding the second part of this amendment , it is important that job losses in the industry are counted and identified much more clearly .
Let us not forget that in the administration of a common fisheries policy the statistical analysis used must include the social aspect .
Amendment No 3 makes it possible to add an important aspect : the collection of environmental data .
If this environmental dimension were not incorporated into the management of data , then the Commission would be able unilaterally , just as it pleases , to prohibit the use of any particular type of fishing gear .
Amendment No 4 specifies the obligation upon scientists to process all the data and pass it on to the relevant authorities , including national and regional authorities , in order to contribute to the decision-making process .
Amendment No 5 serves to mitigate the Commission proposal .
Amendment No 6 is intended to tighten up the Commission ' s participation in the inspection procedure .
It is essential that all the data is sent on an annual basis and that the Commission should produce regular reports of the aggregated results .
Finally , Amendment No 7 requires the Commission to produce a report by the end of the year 2001 .
Hudghton report ( A5-0036 / 2000 )
- ( FR ) The amendment to the directive as presented by the Commission is an important one since it deals with a specific disease , i.e. infectious salmon anaemia , a contagious viral disease .
It is a water-borne virus and is transmitted via organic substances such as blood , faecal matter , mucus , etc .
There is no scientific proof of the possibility of vertical transmission of the disease through roe .
It is , however , recognised that other species such as trout , eels or herring , may be carriers of the virus without being affected by it .
The disease was detected in Norway in 1984 and also in Canada ( 1996 ) .
The virus does not survive at a temperature of more than 26 C , and is therefore not dangerous to humans .
The disease chiefly affects the Scottish salmon industry . It was detected in this region in May 1998 .
Today , 240 salmon farms are affected by ISA .
It is therefore essential to contain this disease and prevent it spreading to all the aquacultural establishments in the various Member Sates of the European Union .
The Council proposal envisages setting up a system for the gradual elimination of fish affected by the disease and also a vaccination plan .
We can only declare ourselves in favour of the proposed plan for the gradual elimination of affected fish .
The fish farms concerned must be assisted in ' cleaning up ' the infected site and preventing the disease from spreading through the commercial transport of live fish .
As regards vaccination , we should remember that the initial directive prohibited the use of vaccines against ISA .
The Commission ' s new proposal would authorise the use of vaccines , but it is important to point out that so far , no vaccine has actually been found .
The usefulness of this proposal is limited , to say the least , certainly in the short term .
It is therefore crucial for the Commission to earmark sufficient funding to support the development of an effective vaccine against the European strain of ISA .
Resolution on women in decision making ( B5-0180 / 2000 )
My Group abstained in the resolution on women in decision making , much to our regret .
But even greater is our regret that we still need such resolutions .
This lead has since been followed by a number of parties and it cannot be said that the electorate have risen in protest to condemn such parties for their actions .
Nor have the electorate felt themselves manipulated by such quotas .
The resolution makes clear there is a need for a proportional system that gives form to women ' s representation and that all political parties must take action .
We look forward to that .
We have sympathy with those who argue that people should be selected on their merits ; they should be .
Our culture should allow for a balance between the sexes and people should be able to develop their talents wherever they lie , but our culture and values at the moment do not reflect that belief .
That is why our Group supports positive action and only when women are fairly represented in positions of decision making will men also be fairly represented .
We might also then develop a culture where your paid and unpaid work , your pay packet , your parental leave and your pension are not determined by your sex .
Nonetheless , even though progress has been made in recent years thanks to strategies such as mainstreaming and complementary schemes such as positive action , they are still too few in number to be satisfactory .
Under-representation of women in politics , for example , continues to be the norm .
For , whether in politics or in the labour market , structural discrimination is the main problem facing women .
It is thus up to the European political parties to make themselves more accessible to women .
A condition of this type may have no legal value , but it is nonetheless of great symbolic value .
It gives political parties an important role in building a democratic Europe .
This may , for example , involve implementing positive action and promoting parity within our political parties .
In the 1999 European elections some parties did put forward lists with men and women equally represented .
This is an example of good practice which should be applied more widely .
I do not know if there is some cause-and-effect at work here , but the fact is that the proportion of female Members in the European Parliament went from 25.7 % in 1994 to 29.9 % in 1999 .
Moreover , this Parliament has had a woman president since the 1999 elections .
- Some progress has been made recently in increasing the number of women present in decision-making bodies around the Union .
In our own Institution , 30 % of elected representatives are now women , including the President of the European Parliament itself .
Finland too has just elected a female President .
On average , one quarter of Member State governments are composed of women and a little over one fifth of their parliaments .
This is still far from satisfactory , especially given that the figures vary enormously between Member States where the Nordic countries experience a much higher female representation in positions of responsibility and decision making .
My Group does not favour the use of quotas in general since , in the long run , they can be counterproductive and even undermine the cause they aim to support .
This oppression is based upon a sexual and social division of labour which values men ' s work more than women ' s .
Wages are not equal , women ' s work is still perceived as ' stop-gap ' work and , more generally , female employees do not have access to the same positions of responsibility as men .
What is more , women bear the main responsibility for family matters .
Women must be entitled to full time employment on an equal footing with men .
Mandatory legislation must be adopted in order to encourage equality in the workplace . States must develop a public service offering childcare for working mothers .
Finally , in order to enable everyone , men and women , to become involved in public life , working hours must be drastically reduced .
We need real equality between men and women in political , economic and social life .
We are opposed to the idea that the biological differences between men and women should give rise to two different world views and two different value systems .
Women have the right to be involved in the decision-making process as ' individuals ' and not as token females .
- I , together with my colleagues in the British Conservative delegation , am totally committed to the need to have more women playing a full and active part in public life .
We share in all expressions of regret that there remains inequality and gender discrimination and especially under-representation of women in politics .
However , we are not convinced that one form of discrimination should be countered with another form of discrimination , namely the introduction of quotas to guarantee women elected places .
I feel this especially keenly as only on Tuesday evening of this week my 27-year-old daughter , Caroline , was selected as the prospective Conservative candidate for the Southampton Itchen constituency in the United Kingdom .
She achieved this position totally on her own merit and in open competition against all-comers .
We should not adopt a position that in any way detracts from the position of the increasing number of women who are demonstrating that without fear or favour they can earn their place in public life .
Katiforis report ( A5-0041 / 2000 )
And so we now have no resources left to pay pensions .
We need a completely different system .
These leaders must resign . They do not deserve the loyalty of the elderly of today , nor the young people of today , nor the elderly of 2100 , 2200 and so forth .
.
We have therefore voted against the report in its present form , as all the amendments we tabled were rejected . I would like to highlight the following :
- ( FR ) Our position is determined by the nature of our project for Europe .
Such a policy should bring the overcautious monetarism of the ECB into perspective and should break with the neo-liberal principles of privatisation and undermining social protection .
The free-marketeering Right ' s rejection of the proposed amendments leads us , therefore , to vote against the resolution .
- ( SV ) We have chosen to abstain in the vote on Amendment 4 to the Katiforis report on the EU Economy ( 1999 ) .
Our basic attitude is that competition between different national tax systems is not always a bad thing and that the Member States should , as far as possible , retain their right of decision making in this area .
Tax harmonisation at European level should only take place in exceptional cases , for example in the cases of certain environmental taxes and taxes on capital .
Even if we agree that a certain degree of tax harmonisation is necessary if the internal market is to function properly , Amendment No 4 is altogether too far-reaching and undifferentiated when it comes to this issue .
Joint resolution on the shipwreck of the ( RC B5-0181 / 2000 )
Mr President , we voted in favour of the resolution on the wreck of the Erika out of solidarity with the victims of this ecological disaster .
We do , however , deplore the indecisive nature of the resolution .
It is disgusting to see Total leaving the reparation of the damage it caused to volunteers and local authorities .
It is equally disgusting to see the State releasing funds , inadequate funds moreover , which represent nothing more than a backdoor subsidy to this firm and its criminal dealings .
Confining oneself to discussing merely the issue of flags of convenience is dodging the main issue .
Legislation and controls should not only be tightened up but also applied to the letter .
It was made painfully clear that a number of players need to be removed from the pitch in order to ensure that the Erika was the last unseaworthy ship to pollute the Breton coast .
This is the seventh time that Brittany is having to deal with an oil slick since the Torrey Canyon shipwreck .
No other region in the world has had to pay such a high price for the transport of polluting or dangerous substances by sea .
At EU level we would like to see one single piece of legislation drawn up for shipping , encompassing all its technical , commercial , social and environmental aspects .
Without exception , the risky practices of flags of convenience must be banned in the ports and waters of the fifteen Member States and thirteen applicant States .
Secondly , together with the UDB , we would argue in favour of establishing coastguard services and appointing maritime inspectors to work under the direct supervision of the relevant shipping areas and monitor the strict observance of European legislation .
The draft resolution which we have approved contains provisions to this effect , and our Group has therefore given it its full backing .
It takes far better account than our previous resolution of the extent of the disaster , which every day seems to get far worse than anticipated on first analysis and is becoming more exacting , clearer and more urgent .
At this stage it is still difficult to assess the total damage caused to all the fishing , fish farming and aquaculture sectors .
We do already know , however , that it will be extensive .
Every day , further pollution increases the toll .
The degradation does not affect just business turnover but also valuable parts of our heritage .
The effect upon the brand image of seafood products is hard to calculate today .
Fishing and tourism , as the two chief resources in most of the regions on our Atlantic coastline , have therefore both been hard hit .
Hence the need to clearly stipulate , as our resolution does , the principle of ' polluter cleans ' and the principle of ' polluter pays ' .
It is in fact the job of the polluters to pay the costs for cleaning the areas suffering as a result of their actions , and for the restoration of the ecological balance damaged by their actions .
Regarding the compensation system , the citizens are anxious because FIPOL ' s initial compensation payments to victims have been limited to 25 % .
This is just scandalous .
Quite obviously all victims should receive 100 % compensation .
It would be quite unthinkable to insist that victims should bear any part of the costs of the damages they have suffered due to the incompetence of a polluter .
This procedure should be adopted as a model , since it will make it possible to expedite the compensation of victims , be they private individuals or public authorities .
Everyone must play their own part .
The Commission , which , for once , has not followed the lead of the Americans even though it might have been beneficial in this case , should establish a basis for maritime safety at the earliest possible opportunity .
Let me remind you that the Erika was registered in Valletta .
The most effective form of prevention is to ensure that any potential polluter is made liable to extremely heavy financial penalties .
Katiforis report ( A5-0017 / 2000 )
We agree that the fishing industry has the most to gain from promoting respect for the marine environment .
It is worth emphasising , however , that small-scale coastal fishing is a good example of how fishing activity can be combined with sustainable development that does not threaten the marine environment .
We feel that it is possible to create a fisheries management policy based on conserving the marine environment which is compatible with the interests of fishing communities .
But in order for this to happen , we must specifically take account of the fact that there is a correlation between income from fishing and an increase in fishing effort .
Hence the importance of our amendments , which sought to achieve this .
Effectiveness and excessive regulation are not compatible .
As regards reducing the pressure exerted by fishing upon resources , it is important to emphasise the international nature of this obligation .
What real point would there be in reducing our European fishing fleet if , at the same time , third countries were going to continue to deplete fisheries resources ?
Moreover , it must be observed that the development of the globalisation of trade has the effect of considerably reducing the effectiveness of inspection and supervision of fishing activities .
The latter occurs very frequently in businesses whose capital came from a Member State other than the flag State of the fishing vessel ( this is actually a way of concealing ' quota-hopping ' ) .
Food safety with regard to seafood is also of prime importance .
It is essential to safeguard the positive image of seafood products and to prevent unsafe food being sold in the European Union .
That concludes the vote .
Adjournment of the session
The session is adjourned .
Resumption of the session
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 2 March 2000 .
Madam President , this is actually about an event which has taken place since the last sitting , a hearing held by the Committee on Women 's Rights and Equal Opportunities .
There was a grave danger of this House 's reputation being damaged .
You see , it emerged that during the plenary part-sessions there is a significant rise in prostitution in the area , in Strasbourg .
I would cordially request that you look into this matter with the Strasbourg authorities and investigate whether criminal activity is at work here , and whether it is linked to trafficking in women and forced prostitution .
Thank you , Mrs Grner .
I would like to say that I was , like yourself , extremely shocked to hear this and immediately wrote to the Mayor of Strasbourg in order to get to the bottom of this issue .
I fully agree with your remarks and have even been proactive in responding to your wishes .
I will , of course , keep you updated on the reply that Mr Ries is bound to send me .
We get bad news in these points of order very often , but I have very good news for our Dutch colleagues .
They now have two television channels .
( Applause and laughter ) The Quaestors are working hard on their behalf and we are waiting for the Finnish television channel .
We have two German channels as well , so happy viewing everybody .
I hope you enjoy it .
I am absolutely delighted , Mrs Banotti , and think that the Members concerned should thank our Quaestors wholeheartedly .
Madam President , I would simply like to add to what Mrs Grner has said .
You will be aware that terrible things happen to these women , that they are tortured and their families threatened . It is not only in Strasbourg that this happens .
I believe that we should all sit down and discuss this , that this Parliament should denounce this state of affairs and above all that it should play a full part in eradicating such modern-day slavery .
Thank you , Mrs Roure , for this additional information .
We will assess the situation when in Brussels too , and then see what should be done .
Madam President , on behalf of the entire Dutch contingent , I would like to extend warm thanks to Mrs Banotti for all the efforts she has made to ensure that we now have two Dutch television channels .
Madam President , I would like to talk about a quite different matter , which concerns Iran .
Thank you , Mr Jonckheer .
I will happily comply with your request .
Madam President , I do not think that Mrs Banotti should be cock-a-hoop today because she has laid on two Dutch TV channels .
It would have been better if she had obtained channels in all languages .
I hope we shall be getting a Danish channel next time .
Thank you , Mr Blak .
As you can see , Mrs Banotti , you still have your work cut out for you .
Madam President , I have learnt a new code of conduct here in the European Parliament , where one always has to express one ' s thanks .
I too would like to say thank you for the fact that here we can watch a Finnish television channel .
I hope that we will also be getting a picture on the Finnish language television channel and not just the sound .
Then I would like to say thank you for the fact that we have got cold water in the taps .
Back home we also have hot water , but at least it is good to have some water .
Thank you , Mr Seppnen .
Special European Council ( 23-24 March 2000 in Lisbon )
The next items are the Council and Commission statements on the Special European Council in Lisbon , which is to be held on 23 and 24 March .
It is my great pleasure to give the floor to the Prime Minster , Antnio Guterres .
I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council , Mr Antonio Guterres , and immediately give the floor to Mr Romano Prodi , President of the Commission .
Madam President , I would first of all like to extend my warmest congratulations to Prime Minister Guterres for his initiative for the Lisbon Summit , and congratulate him on the quality of the preparatory work .
We fully approve of the breakdown he presented to us , which received such an ovation , and we support his initiative .
Together , we can make the Lisbon Summit a success .
I will restrict myself in this speech to presenting the Commission ' s contribution to Lisbon - our long-term strategy and our vision for this Summit .
In Lisbon , very simply , we will have to decide whether Europe will be able to regain its leading role in the economic and technological worlds , relinquished long ago .
Now is the time to do this because there is currently a good chance of succeeding .
Never has this generation witnessed such a consensus of all the economic experts in Europe in forecasting strong and sustained growth .
Even the rise in oil prices did not cause an increase in inflation or halt this economic expansion , as might have been expected .
There are , nevertheless , a number of warning signs , but these are not of a nature to stop us proceeding with a development policy as we had intended and planned to do .
This will put us back in the lead , and this is why we adopted the e-Europe initiative , which prompted the Commission to set a practical example in its administrative reform .
This is an extremely complicated undertaking , but we will succeed because our mission is very clear , we are a relatively small institution and we have a very high level of culture .
By doing so , we want to set a clear example to all the European governments and all the administrations with which we will have to communicate by e-mail instead of on paper .
In addition to this , we are facing a social challenge : the need to fight unemployment and social exclusion .
We have been through a tough period , but I can assure you that there is nothing unrealistic in this goal .
Human resources mean education , training and reform of the Welfare State in order to deal , in particular , with the problem of an ageing society .
We have not always managed to find an adequate solution to this problem , which is affecting all our countries and becoming more serious every day .
And it is not going to go away .
I am confident that in Lisbon we will be able to take a step forwards , pooling benchmarking experiments and proposals on this major issue .
It is not true that we have achieved a perfect single market : there is still a great deal to do in this area .
If we want to halt inflation by raising oil prices , we must take action at both European and national levels to improve these services , and the same applies to financial and banking services .
We therefore need - and I am saying this because the slump has lasted quite a while now - a European company statute , a Community patent , a more liquid capital market and better procurement rules .
These are operational points which cannot be dismissed .
We at the Commission will do our part and , I repeat , we will introduce all these new technologies within the institution in all our procedures and relations with the outside world .
We must mobilise individual citizens , local authorities , national governments , businesses and trade unions .
As President Guterres said , the main goal of Lisbon will be to set up this network .
To achieve results , we need a new method , and , as the Portuguese Prime Minister said in his speech , clear macroeconomic parameters for this activity .
We are not introducing a new process : we are not adding anything new , but for the first time we are combining the existing processes and there is a chance this may bring success .
We must disseminate best practice in all fields and endeavour to advance it at European level .
We will achieve a great , strong , common Europe only if we are able , once again , to offer our citizens the joy of regaining our lost primacy .
On behalf of my group , I would like to congratulate Portugal , as the country holding the presidency , on organising the European Council in Lisbon , and we obviously wish you every success in your endeavours .
I would like to raise a few issues from our perspective .
The processes which have been put in place , by common agreement , to improve levels of employment , boost economic renewal and increase social cohesion within the territory of the Union are extremely important .
It is only right that the meeting in Lisbon at the end of the month should stop to consider where we are exactly .
Despite the diverse nature of these processes , they must have one common purpose : to improve people ' s quality of life in the Union .
We do not need new organisations , new working parties or new fora to achieve this objective , however .
The tools are surely known to all .
Often , however , national considerations , and sometimes ideological resistance also , mean that these tools do not get used .
When the idea of the single market was launched with some vigour in the 1980s , we could still move towards our destination at the speed of a local steam locomotive , figuratively speaking .
We must , however , be sure that the engine does not give out before the decision makers get to the finishing line .
How can we imagine being able to create the world ' s most competitive economic area unless we venture to free up competition within the area ?
The opening up of competition that has already been agreed for the telecommunications industry , as with the energy sector also , will create new , much-needed jobs and bring down prices for both industry and consumers .
A basis for all this is created through education and training , and research , however .
It is quite right to strive to create an information infrastructure quickly , which private individuals , schools and businesses can all as easily be a part of at reasonable or even no expense .
There are two issues that must be emphasised both by us and the Commission and the Council , and we must always draw attention to them .
These tasks are still mainly the responsibility of the Member States - whether it is the issue of education and training , and research , increased competition or removing barriers to entrepreneurship .
Coordination is natural in many sectors - within the framework of the tasks of the Union also - to avoid overlapping , but healthy , honest competition is still more important than coordination , including in many non-commercial sectors .
Benchmarking and best practice , which the Commission recommends , calls for a large measure of Europe-wide transparency in those fields where industrial secrecy does not apply .
The modernisation of the European social model and its increased effectiveness are as important for our competitiveness as the corresponding modernisation of the economy .
Work must be the most sensible way of improving the welfare of families , but if it really is not possible , we have in place society ' s safety net to prevent exclusion .
The most important issue , however , is developing mature interpersonal relationships in the family , at work , in society and in international relations .
As the importance of education is being stressed we have to make our youth aware of that early on in their development .
The Commission refers , appropriately in my opinion , to deficits that hinder the growth of employment in the Union .
We might mention the skills deficit as one example .
In a Union that has fifteen million unemployed there is now a shortage of labour to the tune of around one million workers in industries that are suffering from a skills deficit .
Some are suggesting importing a trained elite into the Union area .
I would ask whether this would be fair to countries less developed than ours , as this would create a brain drain for them .
The UN , on the other hand , has referred to the fact that in a few years ' time there will be a shortfall of 40 million workers as a result of demographic change .
Madam President , today 's debate is welcome , necessary and timely .
This is an affront to individual and collective dignity and it gives us at least 15 million reasons why we should carry on with the project that you have highlighted here today , Mr Prime Minister .
I too would like to welcome the fact that you have come to this House to dialogue with us before you go to your summit meeting .
That is a practical measure of the potential if we can get the policies and methods right .
The task of Lisbon has been correctly identified by you , Prime Minister , and by President Prodi as no less than shifting European policy towards a new practice , towards a new paradigm .
Through greater coherence in terms of bench-marking , sharing best practice and improving strategic cooperation and coordination , the EU can be an important factor in releasing a new economic dynamic .
Too many of our European markets are still too fragmented .
Not enough European small and medium-sized enterprises grow into world-beaters .
There are too few entrepreneurs in Europe .
There is too little enterprise in Europe .
You have remarked yourself , Prime Minister , that there is too little risk capital available on European capital markets .
We undertake too little research and development , individually as states and collectively as Europe .
Where we do , too little of it is converted into market product and services .
The Lisbon challenge is to delineate policy and methods for redressing these deficiencies and to release this potential dynamic .
This truly would be an enabling exercise .
If we can give people jobs this will prove to be the greatest weapon in the fight against social exclusion .
Mr Barn Crespo has described it as a Social Democrat project .
I am moved to describe it myself rather as an enlightened Liberal project .
Within the constraints of the budget and of sound macro-economic policy - I underline those as President Prodi has already done - strictly speaking our European social models offer a welfare safety net .
But for too many of the excluded and the long-term unemployed , the young , women and other marginalised groups , passive welfare dependency is not enough . It is a trap .
What we have to do is release this new dynamic at individual level by saying the resources are there , even within the framework of sound finance .
But they are used in a passive way .
We can best guarantee the fight against unemployment and encourage social cohesion in Europe through having an employment-rich economy and through having sustainable models of welfare .
Finally , on the knowledge society , it is very clear that we need to convert our thinking , not just at a technological but also at a social level .
It is very clear that we need to convert old social spending methods into new economic and social opportunity .
We need to shake off the policies and methods that have condemned a generation of Europeans to be second-best on the world stage .
We can do that by enabling Europe and its peoples to achieve our full potential .
If Lisbon can meet the targets spoken of here today , it will be an important step on that road to releasing the dynamic to which I have referred .
We would like to believe this , but we cannot .
Why ?
We know that new technologies do not , in themselves , generate greater democracy , but simply greater collective and personal autonomy for those citizens who are better integrated into mainstream society .
We know that the privatisation of public services poses a threat to social , regional and local cohesion , and we also know that the Commission is proposing to accelerate this process .
Lastly , we know that anyone who claims to meet the needs of the citizens must first ensure their total involvement in public policy decisions .
We know all of this .
We have heard nothing about the possibility of public funds being freed up to promote innovation in the field of products and services liable to improve the quality of life for all .
We have heard nothing about the universal telecommunications service being redefined in order to make it possible for everyone to access the Internet under the best possible technical conditions and at affordable rates .
In short , we have heard nothing to suggest that the citizen will be anything more than a customer .
We have heard nothing to suggest that opting for sustainable development would be a guiding factor in long-awaited growth .
Madam President , Mr President-in-Office and Prime Minister of Portugal , the current situation in the Union and in most of the Member States is bound to raise legitimate concerns , in spite of the overall economic recovery .
The rate of unemployment has stayed relatively high , long-term unemployment is growing steadily worse and levels of employment are extremely low .
To add to this , there is an increasing lack of job security which makes matters even worse .
All this reflects a social situation in which women and young people are being particularly badly hit , and which is dramatically highlighted by the approximately 50 million people excluded from society .
It is our opinion that it is not only necessary to change this state of affairs , but that it is also possible to do so .
It is necessary because employment , and I mean quality employment with employee rights , is a fundamental right of every human being .
It is possible if we attack the real causes , which we feel are inseparable from the drift towards neo-liberalism , which has been shaping underlying trends , specifically in the macroeconomic field .
We are therefore now witnessing a clear consolidation of the basic core of Thatcherite tendencies , even if they are attenuated by aid measures .
An appeal for the coordination of social policies or an insistence on a society based on innovation and knowledge or on information technology will therefore not be enough , however important they may be .
It is crucial for us to abandon this monetarist and anti-social approach and put humans at the heart of our priorities and policies .
My Group , which attaches particular importance to social issues , met in Lisbon last week in view of the forthcoming Special Council , precisely in order to examine and discuss this issue .
We had an opportunity to listen to and hold discussions with workers ' representatives and with union leaders from Portugal and other parts of Europe .
In particular , we met representatives from ABB , from Michelin and also the organisers of job marches .
We reached joint conclusions on 14 points , of which we will officially inform the Presidency .
We will examine and judge the results of the Lisbon Summit in the light of these factors and in the light of our ability to establish concrete , properly quantified and timetabled objectives in this key area .
But we must surely oppose some of your policies , some of your principles , and a certain economic fundamentalism .
You declare yourselves to be concerned at the fate of the millions of poor and unemployed whose situation your policies have in fact done much to create .
Unfortunately , nothing is changing and nothing is going to change .
I must at this point stress our conviction that there can be no social policy nor full employment policy without national and European preferences , and without protecting our markets from fierce international competition .
It is our obligation to put Europeans first when it comes to employment , social protection , policies relating to the family , and retirement policy .
Your globalisation of the economy is neither necessary nor inevitable .
You are thus acting as accomplices in this process .
You are facilitating it , collaborating with it , and are in fact orchestrating , despite your declared intentions , the disintegration of our social welfare systems , precariousness , and social decline .
Your ultra-liberal headlong rush is thus surely not the solution to social problems , precariousness or employment problems faced by tens of millions of European citizens .
Mr President , the Lisbon Summit will produce a further string of fine words to dazzle us with .
The words will be welcome , but the basic problem is that we have an Economic and Monetary Union which attaches more importance to fighting inflation than to promoting employment .
The Central Bank has said that price rises should always be kept below 2 % .
The Stability Pact says that the budget deficit must be no more than 1 % in ordinary years .
There is no requirement that unemployment should be below 5 % or - better still - below 2 or 1 % .
It is public consumption and the price of money which definitely must not rise .
You might think that a country would wish to limit unemployment by means of public investment , but that is prohibited .
It is more important to stick to the holy cow of monetary policy than to find jobs for the unemployed .
I , on the other hand , think it is more important to take account of families ' finances and to ensure that dad comes home with a wage packet instead of a redundancy notice .
So too did the Danish Government which came to power in 1993 .
In 1992 we had 9.2 % unemployment , both in Denmark and in the eleven countries of the good old EU .
Between 1992 and 1998 , unemployment in Denmark fell to 5.1 % .
In the EU , it increased to 10.9 % .
In Denmark , we have had combined growth of 20 % , compared with 10 % in the EU .
If the Danish Government had acted in the same way under the present dispensation , it would have been downright illegal and unconstitutional because the budget deficit was 3.9 % at that time .
Now , Denmark also has an actual budget surplus because those who exchanged their redundancy notices for wage packets also began to pay tax instead of drawing benefit .
I believe that the EU ' s prime ministers ought to study the Danish example when they meet for their tte--tte on the economy in Lisbon .
We need a change to the EMU Treaty instead of a further string of fine words directed at the unemployed .
My group hopes that Danish voters will decide to keep the Danish krone when they take part in the referendum on membership of EMU on 28 September of this year .
Mr President-in-Office , I listened to your speech with great interest and it is obvious that in overall terms , no one here today could fail to agree with what you have said .
You have made statements of intent , which correspond to the vision we all share of the problems of jobs and of Europe in general .
From this point of view , we must also think about one of the objectives for the Lisbon Summit that you mentioned , namely combating the political deficit in Europe .
My first question , which is a very direct one , is about an institutional issue which we now have the opportunity to discuss with you for the first time as President-in-Office of the European Council .
This concerns the most serious political problem we have had to face in recent times - the problem of Austria .
The question that I would like to ask very clearly is this : are you representing 14 EU countries here or 15 ?
This is a perfectly sensible question because as President-in-Office of the European Union , you have worked and acted as the spokesperson for bilateral decisions between states .
From this point of view , this question is perfectly sensible and requires the clearest possible answer .
That is my first question .
My second question is about the Employment Summit .
No one understands better than us the crucial role that the Internet , the digital economy and the knowledge-based economy have to play , but these issues were not what the Employment Summit was originally intended for .
Mr President-in-Office , you concluded on a vaguely ideological note , which is fair enough .
This is what we must counter if we are to guarantee the knowledge-based economy of the future .
Furthermore , the way in which this European Council is being prepared is a good illustration of this .
Firstly , there is the seriousness and depth of the document presented in January .
Then , there are the various preparatory conferences and the contributions that both business and union leaders are making towards this summit .
In particular , there is the latest contribution to research that was made at the recent meeting which brought together Nobel Prize winners and Ministers for Science and Technology .
This shows that the Portuguese Government is preparing for this Summit seriously and is paying a great deal of attention to its substance .
For years , many people have said this was impossible , that in modern society it would never again be possible .
Something that we said here in January and that I would like to repeat is that we must not be satisfied with this strategic objective being the priority of one presidency , a priority for just six months .
Only in this way will it be able to match the degree of seriousness with which the presidency is preparing this Special Summit .
I congratulate you , Mr President-in-Office .
It is an agenda which emphasises that it is a strong and dynamic economy and increased competitiveness which will secure the objective of higher employment in the EU .
The fact that the EU lags so far behind the United States with regard to research , job creation and the development of new technology gives pause for thought .
It is right to focus upon access to , and use of , the Internet by public officials and by the education system and to create what has been called " the learning society " .
It is also only right to concentrate upon access to venture capital and otherwise to reinforce the position of small and medium-sized businesses .
In its discussion paper for the Summit , the Commission set quantified objectives for developments in the field of employment , including women ' s employment , and for the fight against unemployment .
In the same paper , the Commission also set the objective of mitigating the problems connected with poverty in Europe over the next ten years .
With the exchange of experiences and ideas as part of the Luxembourg process , employment policy is designed in such a way as to ensure that this will , in fact , be the case .
However , it is also very important that countries should not work at cross purposes when solving the social problems in question but , on the contrary , that they should cooperate and provide each other with inspiration .
You pointed out that there are fifteen different public opinions , but , in fact , there are many more than that .
There are , after all , huge differences within the Member States .
Coming from Belgium , I do not need to point out that there is a difference of opinion between Flanders and Wallonia , or between former East and West Germany ?
Furthermore , our public opinion threatens to become polarised as a result of globalisation .
Where there used to be a discrepancy between the haves and the have-nots , there are now those who can keep up as opposed to those who cannot or those who drop out of society .
This is a very serious risk .
In Europe , everyone should be able to keep up .
Every region should be able to keep up and everyone must be able to take part in the knowledge-based society .
We have had to establish that , despite the many investments being made in structural funds , the unemployment figures still vary greatly .
I would therefore advocate networking regions , more so than a Europe in which each Member State stands on its own dignity .
Mr President , Mr Guterres , Mr Prodi , ladies and gentlemen , it is pleasing to hear the Commission and the Portuguese Presidency declaring full employment to be an aim of European policy .
I agree that this should be so , but to be successful in the future a model of full employment requires , above all , professional and socially secure jobs .
We need to structure the economy and the world of work in such a way that gainful employment becomes worthwhile .
You are relying mainly on further deregulation in the internal market , on the Internet revolution and on e-commerce and e-business to be job machines .
This policy will not allow you to keep your promise of full employment .
Economic reforms such as the liberalisation of the internal energy market have led to stiff competition and numerous mergers .
This has cost jobs and the trend is continuing .
As early as the mid-nineties , Mr Bangemann promised a huge increase in jobs due to the information society .
The result is sobering .
When I see that many companies engaged in e-commerce admittedly have huge market capitalisation , but that their actual business is constantly making losses , this does not necessarily make me feel any more optimistic .
E-commerce and e-business certainly have a great future .
But their contribution to employment growth is overstated almost religiously by their proponents .
That is why I believe that we need a different policy mix for a new policy of full employment .
Secondly , it means a strategy to make drastic cuts in working time and redistribute work between men and women .
Thirdly , it means more state support for employment in ecologically sound sectors of the economy and a suitably future-oriented innovation policy linked in particular to boosting small and medium-sized enterprises .
Fourthly , this is about an emancipatory labour market policy .
If we do not go down this path then we will undermine our future prosperity , our competitiveness , our economic productivity and the social cohesion of society .
Mr President , the European leaders will be primarily addressing three key issues when they meet in Portugal later this month .
Firstly , they will examine how best the European Union should equip itself to accommodate the broader effects of trade globalisation .
Secondly , a closer examination will take place as to what initiatives should be implemented to avoid and combat social exclusion in our society .
Thirdly , the leaders will bring forward new programmes to guarantee that the European Union is a leader across all elements of the changing and evolving information technology markets .
The world is becoming a smaller place in terms of market access and the term " global village " is not out of place .
However , the arrival of globalisation will not and must not mean absolute and free market access for all products and services operating at this time .
It is clear that each country has different priorities in terms of the different economic sectors it wishes to protect .
That is clear from the completed Uruguay Round of GATT negotiations and will be evident in the World Trade Organisation talks which will be taking place over the next three years .
Moreover , initiatives to promote cultural and linguistic diversity in Europe must continue to receive support .
We must not build a Europe of the haves and the have-nots .
The European Union as an economic entity is very strong but there are still large-scale social problems which need to be addressed in a structured manner .
We must continue to put in place comprehensive training programmes for the youth and long-term unemployed in both urban and rural areas within Europe .
The European Social Fund and national governments must continue to finance drug rehabilitation programmes , to promote higher standards of adult literacy and to work against early school-leaving .
Mr President , a well-functioning labour market which strikes a sustainable balance between supply and demand is a widely cherished desire .
It is therefore understandable that long-term , high unemployment within the European Union is high on the agenda of the European Summit in Lisbon .
But it is questionable whether it is justified to elevate employment policy to European policy in this way .
Despite satisfactory economic growth , the drop in unemployment is stagnating .
A number of Member States with high economic growth are facing an overstrained labour market and rising inflation .
Other Member States are experiencing limited growth , widespread unemployment and fixed prices .
Specific instruments , such as interest rates and the exchange rate , are no longer at our disposal .
The fact that Member States are at different stages within the economic cycle nonetheless requires measures specific to each Member State .
Is the Council acting upon this ?
And if so , what measures does the Council Presidency have in mind ?
No one is expecting labour-intensive industries to flourish within an overstrained labour market .
But is this reflected in the policy ?
Has a decision been made in favour of selective growth in such policy ?
And are people prepared to allow the areas suffering high unemployment to benefit from this growth in labour-intensive industries ?
If the Lisbon Summit is serious about fighting unemployment , then we will need more than generic measures .
It is important to take the work where unemployment is at its highest .
It is a gamble to expect that the unemployed will go where the work is , especially in the case of cross-border labour migration .
This may result in the further depopulation of certain disadvantaged areas .
Mr President , with the launch of the common currency , we have not made life any easier for ourselves by abandoning monetary , economic instruments specific to Member States in order to control the economic cycle .
I can imagine that Great Britain , Sweden and Denmark will think twice before embarking on the euro adventure .
Mr President , I would like to extend warm thanks to Prime Minister Guterres for his account and the clarity of this account .
My main question relating to this is , what is actually new ?
Of course , we have in place macro-economic cooperation , the so-called Cologne process , and we have a process for employment , the Luxembourg process . What will this Summit actually add to this ?
What is new , of course , is social protection .
This , in fact , has hardly been dealt with at Summit level and is , in my opinion , a very important topic of discussion .
I think that it is easy to identify the lessons which can be drawn from the Luxembourg process and to declare them applicable to social protection .
I do wonder why public health cannot be mentioned in this respect .
Mr Barn has caused me some concern by saying that the programme which your are presenting , Mr President , is in fact a socio-democratic programme .
It is , of course , a fact that a sound macro-economic policy will automatically result in an improvement in the employment situation .
We have experienced this . But on the other hand , the sound rule of macro-economics should not be misused by pinning it down too much .
Indeed , you will then end up in a situation which a great many economies under socio-economic and socio-democratic rule have experienced - and are still experiencing - where eventually , employment becomes the victim of bad macro-economic policy .
This should not happen .
Finally , Mr President , I have a problem with the Portuguese Presidency ' s documents and also to some extent , but less so , with the Commission ' s documents .
It is their defensive nature .
We have a few countries in Europe , including Denmark , the Netherlands and Ireland , which rivalled the United States in terms of sound performance in the field of employment .
So it is possible for Europeans to match this .
There are other countries which appeared far less capable of doing this .
It is then far more sensible to find out why some countries or regions are doing so very badly , rather than saying that we are underperforming compared to the United States .
Mr President , I should like to thank Prime Minister Guterres for his very committed speech .
I too regard globalisation and the rapid changes that are under way as the major challenges , and I also think that they will only succeed if the people of the countries concerned are involved .
I was therefore very pleased with the Commission ' s document for the Lisbon Summit with its two main messages .
The main message is that the individual should be at the centre of the EU ' s policies .
We have our own approach in Denmark , as Jens-Peter Bonde emphasised , and other countries have theirs , as has also been mentioned .
What is crucial is that the individual Member States and the EU should respect the fact that there can be different methods of solving the problems concerned .
Another reason why I am saying this is that we ought to have something on the agenda in addition to comparisons with the United States .
We must never for a moment forget that our greatest task in Europe is a healing one . By that I mean we must not lose sight of the development perspective .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I am particularly concerned about the information and knowledge society which is supposed to be promoted during the Portuguese Presidency .
To achieve that , we first need an initiative to redistribute work by radically cutting working time and sharing out the work of reproduction differently .
These proposals are not new but they are becoming more topical .
Why ?
Because so far the debate on the information society has completely ignored the fact that only an elite with good technical training benefits from it !
To prevent a repeat of the promise of prosperity for all thanks to technology , but without any change to social structures , we need a debate on power and the distribution of resources .
Or have industrialisation , nuclear power and biotechnology led to greater justice in the past ?
One important point is unfortunately missing completely from the debate , despite the fact that this House is otherwise so fond of consumer protection and mentions it so often .
The right to data protection does not appear in the Euro Paper nor is it part of the current debate on e-commerce .
I wonder what has happened to it !
Or has the evidence recently supplied of the ' Echelon ' global bugging system already been forgotten ?
If we wish to remain credible in developing a European Charter of Fundamental Rights then the fundamental right to privacy must of course be included in each of our individual programmes , in particular where new technologies are concerned .
Mr President , I think it is extremely commendable that the Portuguese programme places such emphasis upon combating unemployment and that the objective is to banish all unemployment .
Nonetheless , there remains an imbalance in the programme about which I am concerned and which I want to talk about .
Education is to be put in order , a fiscal policy devised and venture capital arranged .
In fact , everything possible is to be done to provide the innovators with everything on a plate .
My own experience of these industries , however , is that they are managing really rather well .
In many cases , they have far too much capital , and in many cases they are spoiled .
I have seen IT companies which are unbelievably spoiled .
I think that resources should instead be invested in trying to prevent a split in society , a division of society into two sectors : the new economy and the old .
Above all , integration mechanisms should be created .
Mr President , the agenda for the Lisbon Council , which is to be held on 23 and 24 Match , is liable to induce dizziness .
It is not surprising , given all this , that the numerous contributions made by the presidency of the Commission and by the Member States tend , for the moment , to be spread too thin .
Reading the preparatory documents gives rise to certain fears in this regard .
But how can we guarantee greater convergence of all these vastly different processes ?
The conclusion of the document issued by the presidency on 12 January holds the key .
It would appear that here one should take the word ' framework ' as having the dual meaning of ' synthesis ' and ' obligation ' .
Mr President , are we not , with these blanket documents , going down the path of reinventing the broad strategic guidelines ?
If we consider our gross national product , that ought actually to be possible .
We now need to ask ourselves why this is the case .
Of course there are sectors of the business world , including the new media , in which we occupy leading positions .
Here I need only mention mobile telephones .
We have banned them here in the Chamber , rightly , because they are instruments of torment .
At the same time , however , they also make life much easier for many people because they create jobs .
And in Europe we are world leaders in this field .
Why ?
We are world leaders because we managed to adopt a common set of European rules ; early on we decided on a common European standard which today has become a world standard .
This means that if we in Europe get our act together in good time then we will also be competitive in this field of new technologies .
Where then do Europe 's shortcomings actually lie ?
I believe , Mr President-in-Office , that we cannot eliminate the shortcomings by setting up more observatories as is planned at present .
I believe that these observatories create a handful of jobs for officials , but that they do not create any jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises .
We in Europe are deficient where training is concerned .
This is shown by the fact that where the new media are concerned we are having to import from countries outside Europe .
Europe lacks , as has already been stated , entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial spirit .
There are too few young people who are willing to take the risk of being self-employed .
The way in which we structure our work and the way in which work is organised is not flexible enough .
In Europe we are also still a long way from a common domestic market .
We have 15 domestic markets and a common European internal market .
For electronic commerce we need common , clear , European rules .
We need a European patent at a reasonable price ; we do not have that yet either .
This European patent is so expensive that it is not competitive with other patents .
Mr President , I should like to thank Mr Guterrez for his speech tonight and also for his Lisbon initiative , which is very important to us .
We have a lot of Europeans in the gallery here with us this evening and I wonder what they make of our discussion here this evening .
There are many challenges involved with creating that full employment .
This is the great challenge , the great importance of Lisbon .
I just want to dwell on one or two key aspects that will help us realise that goal of turning rhetoric into reality .
That really is a brave decision , because some Member States will clearly find themselves towards the bottom of the league table , which is something nobody likes .
There are other areas that we must look at .
One of these is the challenge of creating an e-Europe which involves all its citizens and does not leave anybody on the wayside .
Another is the process of actually having a genuine single market - which we still do not yet have - and skills training that will be the key to delivering that innovative and knowledge-driven society .
I welcome the new strategic goal of making Europe the most dynamic and competitive area .
Who could challenge such an ambition ?
I have to say , however , that dynamism and entrepreneurship as well as social cohesion are a very ambitious target , not to mention the creative tension between those two objectives .
I hope that we will achieve them , but I sound a warning note .
I note another ambitious objective of playing a proactive role in organising cyberspace .
I cannot help thinking this is more a case of closing the stable door after the horse has bolted !
I welcome the emphasis on bolstering research and development in Europe , on developing content industries and on speeding up broad-band networks with all that is involved as part of working towards a knowledge society .
Actually , I would prefer to call it an information economy because it is the economy aspect which is the most important .
We live in the time of IDEA - the Internet digital electronic age .
That sums up what we are trying to achieve on the e-side , the electronic side , of life .
But I welcome the fact that this summit is aiming also at a wider emphasis on reforms of our economies in Europe to improve competitiveness and innovation .
That must be right .
We cannot just focus on the new economy .
We must pay attention to the old .
I look forward to hearing more detail about the European Charter for micro-enterprises - that should be very interesting when it comes forward .
One of the priorities which has been identified under the Cardiff process is to improve the sensitivity of the financial markets to the value of intangible investments and investments in knowledge .
That has been achieved possibly beyond the wildest dreams of people a few months ago .
It can be seen in the phenomenal growth in the stock markets of Europe in the value of dot.com companies and just recently in the major changes in the composition of the FTSE 100 index in London .
I cannot help thinking however that although these values have gone sky high and we may expect the bubble to burst , nevertheless the underlying structural change in our economies is here to stay .
Mr President-in-Office , you have made us in the European Parliament eager to leave for Lisbon already .
All of us can only hope that the Special Summit is able to live up to the high expectations which people have of it .
That is also why you have rightly drawn together employment , economic reform , growth and social cohesion and made them issues for top-level action .
It is important for all players in the governments and in the Commission to be pulling in the same direction towards full employment .
Then it will also be possible to convince all economic policy-makers of the need to conform to agreed behaviour , which so far they unfortunately still have not yet done .
Europe need lament neither over the success of the US economy nor over the strong dollar if it does not learn any lessons for itself from it .
Reforms of financial services , services capital and labour markets are certainly useful and necessary .
But they alone will not give growth the stimulus it needs to enable long-lasting growth , effectively generating jobs , to be organised at a high level .
We were forced to experience this several times in the nineties .
An average productivity increase of 2 % requires a growth rate of 3.5 % for full employment to be able to be achieved within ten years .
This scenario has moved into the foreseeable future .
That is why full employment actually needs to be right at the top of the agenda .
We need to set a growth target of at least 3 % .
The aim of full employment cannot be achieved by economic policy alone .
The Europe of innovation and the information society also need to be commandeered to reach this target .
We are a long way from it today .
We must also recognise that we need another type of economic and financial policy .
It is simply unacceptable for shareholders or directors of plcs to be the only ones who decide on jobs , the economy and share prices .
When 13-year-old school children play on the computer after school at restructuring their parents ' share portfolios , then this has more to do with toy casinos than with responsibility .
I think that the Special Summit in Lisbon will herald responsible economic planning in the European Union .
Mr President , Prime Minister , President of the Commission , the Portuguese Presidency has presented an ambitious programme for the Special Summit .
Congratulations !
I also welcome the support which Portugal is receiving from the Commission , not least through the communication which seeks to develop the Community into an information society for everyone .
In adopting the Luxembourg Process the Heads of State and Government achieved tangible successes .
Since 1997 , however , the really significant results have failed to materialise .
So far , the Cologne Employment Pact has not been able to be invested with sufficient content .
In addition , the macroeconomic dialogue lacks the participation of the European Parliament as an equal partner .
In information technology , in particular , some European countries lack qualified workers , as Mr Suominen emphasised .
Rather than ' importing ' them from third countries , it is better to invest accordingly in vocational training and further education , to invest in human capital .
This is the most effective way of reducing unemployment .
The most important objective of the Summit must be achieved as quickly as possible , and that is to improve the competitiveness of the European economy .
In this context the Ciampi Group also mentions the European company statute .
It puts the loss to the economy of not having a statute of this kind at EUR 30 billion a year .
We do not want the basic unrefined European company model .
We need this European company to come supplied with minimum standards of worker participation .
Our social policy goal is not of course the basic unrefined model of the market economy either , but a social market economy built on the European model .
We should also judge the success of the Lisbon Summit on the contribution it makes to achieving this goal .
Mr President-in-Office of the Council , do you know how Archimedes expounded his theory of the lever ?
He would say , ' Give me a fulcrum and I will lift the world . '
In Lisbon you will clearly be trying to lift the world or , in any case , our world , the world of Europe .
As for the lever , you have described all the appropriate mechanisms in your exhilarating proposal , which is exciting in so many respects .
That simply leaves the fulcrum .
The fulcrum is provided by resources .
Nevertheless , you will have to have the means at your disposal , means which , I fear , you are somewhat lacking at present .
It is thus up to you to create them . The straitjacket of Agenda 2000 will not provide you with the requisite means .
You will thus have to encourage your colleagues to see to it that the proposals you make to us are going to be financed .
Just one example - and it is one of the mechanisms central to your proposals - is that of the information and knowledge society .
It is clear - and you explained this very well - that the social divide is a fundamental problem that we must eradicate .
There is no need to add to this what I will call the digital divide .
Indeed , to whom will you offer this information and knowledge society ?
To an increasingly aged or ageing population , to a population which , despite everything , is still poor , and to a population which is becoming , alas , less and less well educated .
You will thus have to adopt a bottom-up approach if you do not want this knowledge society to amount to little more than the pursuit of profits by a number of successful and necessary new firms .
This is not your objective .
Unfortunately , there is one component missing from the mechanism that you have envisaged .
I refer to the public services . The public services have played a key role throughout the entire existence of our European social model .
But we cannot stop there .
We must now define more clearly , within the context of competition and the information society , the principal public service roles of tomorrow as applicable to public undertakings and to private companies in this sector .
Lastly , this knowledge society hinges on research and development and I would like to applaud , at this juncture , the Commission initiative that aims to create a European research area .
Mr President , the Commission and Parliament will nevertheless have need of the Council in order to secure the requisite resources to create this European research area .
The framework programme will not suffice , it will have to be boosted , and its broad guidelines modified .
This is a major task , but we are relying on you to see it through .
Mr President , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , Mr President of the Commission , you have spoken , Mr President , of a political deficit .
They are a tool for political decision making .
And yet they incorporate institutional measures whose influence we will be able to assess in the medium term .
They will bolster the role of the European Council in the decision-making process .
What we are doing here has certain implications .
Let us assess its impact on the set of decisions that we will take when we have to discuss the reform of the General Affairs Council .
It is up to each and every one of us to work on this .
Lastly , a final word on social cohesion .
I am pleased to hear you stress this , since we do not want a society which swaps innovation for social cohesion .
But we do not feel that social exclusion can be eradicated in a piecemeal fashion .
It is a global project , and while the notion of target groups may constitute a staging point , it cannot provide a solution to all our problems in terms of poverty and social exclusion .
We know that this requires a proactive approach and that we can count on your determination .
We will offer you our support in Lisbon in laying down new guidelines for the European Union ' s economic policy .
Mr President , along with my colleagues , I would like to welcome the very clear document that the Portuguese Presidency has given us today .
But it is not just the risk-takers who need to be encouraged .
It is everybody who is in a job working in an organisation .
One of the keys to mobilising this type of risk-taking is to move towards such full employment that people feel they can take that personal risk .
However , I would conclude by asking : which is going to come first ?
Can we really achieve that full employment without unleashing that entrepreneurial talent ?
If we wait for that to happen , I fear the great objectives you have set before us will not be achieved .
But if Lisbon wants to become the summit of these political ambitions , it must also take on board methodology .
I would like to draw your attention to three points , in particular , which seem essential to me if this summit wants to succeed as a major social summit .
Firstly , the method should be such that the employment strategy and the new coordination procedure for social security do not become subservient to a macro-economic policy whose only aim is stability .
Secondly , I would very much like to second your commitment to lay down clear objectives , regarding both economic growth and the level of employment .
But I would like to add that , if Lisbon wants to become a real social summit , we must also be able to spell out our plans to modernise and reinforce social security .
Here , too , we need standards of excellence and a Luxembourg process .
Finally , I support the European Commission ' s intent to formulate an ambitious European poverty standard and to drastically reduce poverty within a ten-year period .
I wish the President-in-Office all the best in the pursuit of his ambitions .
Mr President , there is an idea in the Portuguese Presidency 's statement which I like very much .
If that is the case , Mr President-in-Office , then we urgently need common objectives .
We need firm targets , the attainment of which it is possible to measure , in terms of both quality and quantity , for increasing employment rates , as for example was also recently proposed by the Commission .
We need firm , joint , realistic targets for reducing the unemployment rate , as for example was also recently proposed by the Commission , to 4 % in 2010 .
No longer must it be acceptable for the ECOFIN ministers to allow each other to celebrate consolidation successes at home while responsibility for the massive unemployment in Europe remains shrouded in mystery .
That would give you another ally for your policy .
Mr President-in-Office of the Council , Mr President of the Commission , it is gratifying and encouraging to hear this House speak of a new strategic objective for the next decade .
The central role of employment and social policy , in the creation of this new society , is based on two factors .
On the one hand we have economic efficiency , since , in this new technological context , the quality of human resources is essential .
On the other hand , we have social equality , because , despite the economic upturn which we are witnessing , we still have an enormous degree of social inequality .
Europe needs to achieve full employment .
This full employment should be adapted to the society taking shape , with greater possibilities for its men and women .
European citizens must believe in this project and this state of affairs . They must not see it as something abstract which we only speak about in Brussels or Strasbourg .
We are asking right now for a transition to a new society , to an economy based on innovation , and on the information and knowledge-based society .
We must learn quickly , create new practices more suited to the new society and invest in technological change , but we must never forget the people or the institutions .
Lastly , we have to promote the integration of general equal opportunities policies for all men and women , with particular stress on aspects which help to reconcile professional life with family life .
All of this has to be done thinking of the European citizen . It has to be done thinking of the men and women who live and work daily in our countries .
The Special Lisbon Summit must fundamentally reaffirm , for the European citizen , the notion that the European Union still believes in the idea of a society which favours inclusion and social cohesion .
We must also look at the case of Japan because it holds lessons for Europe in terms of the organisation of work and the role of the state , of businesses and of the workers themselves in business objectives .
The fact is that Europe needs to have 32 million more people in work if it is to match the United States ' employment rate .
We also need new qualifications , as we know that access to technology does not necessarily guarantee high-quality jobs and entrepreneurial initiative .
We need a greater sense of responsibility and greater participation from our social partners - new actors , as the Pintassilgo report calls them - so that we can implement employment agreements and achieve competitiveness in business .
We need to solve the problems of poverty and we need a social model which is suited to these new conditions .
Mr President-in-Office , your proposal is a very ambitious one , although we know that its implementation does not depend on you , but on the 15 Member States .
If I may refer to the Austrian situation , I would very much like that country to be one of the states which will be putting your proposal into practice .
If Austria does this , however , it will be lying to and duping the very people who voted for one of the parties in its government .
I hope that it does just that !
Mr President-in-Office of the Council , Mr President of the Commission , we often hear it said by our neighbours , at all levels of expertise or debate , that we live in a globalised world .
However , it is not so common to hear people speak of what Europe ' s role should be in this context of the information society , globalisation and technology .
It seems to me , Mr President , that this is probably the case because we Europeans see Europe as somewhat removed from our more immediate concerns and interests .
The prime concern of the European citizens , after health , is probably employment .
Within this concern , employment is linked to competitiveness .
We therefore have to re-establish conditions of full employment , employment adapted to the society which is taking shape , which we are all building .
This requires the creation of a dynamic of growth which guarantees , for the whole of the European Union , an average annual rate of growth of 3 % at least .
I therefore think it is necessary to stimulate a culture of dynamism and business initiative and a strengthening of social cohesion .
All of this is absolutely essential . We need technological change and institutional reform .
While it is necessary to learn more quickly from good practices , it is also necessary to create suitable new practices and be innovative in the field of political methodology .
Through policies and structural reform , at the service of the citizens , we will create a Europe which is closer to us and , of course , a Europe which is stronger .
Mr President , I would like to endorse all compliments for the Portuguese Presidency ' s ambitions with this special summit .
The intention to achieve actual coordination of the socio-economic policy across the board appeals to me a great deal .
I would like to draw your attention to three specific points .
The first point concerns corporate governance .
The Portuguese Presidency has put the social dimension of innovation very firmly on the agenda , but I think that this dimension is still too far removed from the intentions to promote new activity .
In my opinion , this social dimension should , in fact , be brought into this new European company , whether this is a large multinational or a small booming ICT company .
In this light , I would like to reopen the debate on corporate governance to discuss the wider concept of the company as stakeholders society , including the role of both sides of industry and all parties involved .
On the last page of the president ' s document , I noticed the intention to set up an observatory for industrial change .
Their cooperation in these activities should also be outlined .
Another point which I would like to touch upon briefly is tax coordination , as I do not think I have sufficient time for three points .
The presidency has mentioned the sensitive issue of company tax and has admitted that there is a considerable impasse in the Monti package regarding this issue .
So I would ask that this point be given due attention too .
Mr President , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , Mr President of the Commission , there has already been a great deal of discussion , and I hope that I will not repeat any of what has gone before .
I would , however , like to thank the Portuguese Presidency most heartily for the document presented and for the excellent address given by the President-in-Office of the Council .
As President Guterres reminded us , it is true that we do not intend to introduce new processes in Lisbon , but rather to combine those decided upon in Luxembourg , Cardiff and Cologne .
This is innovation , and not just structural , technological innovation but also innovation in the field of procedures and methods .
As Mr Van Lancker has already said , the " Social Affairs " Council must have the same status as the ECOFIN Council .
Social dialogue must then be consolidated as a fundamental means of reaching a consensus on the implementation of the necessary changes .
- ( PT ) Mr President-in-Office , I would like to congratulate you on having persuaded Europe that the modernisation of the economy and social cohesion are concepts that can be mutually compatible .
We therefore hope that this Lisbon Summit will help to change the present model of female employment .
Ladies and gentlemen , I am extremely grateful for the excellent and highly pertinent contributions you have made during this debate on the preparation for our Lisbon Special Summit .
I think that we needed to have this debate and we also needed to involve Parliament , because in my opinion Europe still lacks strategic direction .
In order to achieve this strategic direction , there must be an institutional alliance which transcends the natural differences of political opinion .
This alliance has in fact been given form in the excellent contribution that Romano Prodi ' s Commission has just made to the preparations for the Lisbon Summit with their paper .
The fact that Parliament has a crucial role to play in this is also important .
My second example is this : a great deal has been said about the participation of women in the labour market and about equal opportunities for women and men in society in general .
Much has been said in today ' s debate about the fundamental concepts of modern life , such as globalisation , the knowledge society and the relationship between the old and new economies .
All these words and the ideas behind them can apply to both opportunities and threats .
The challenge before us is to turn threats into opportunities and particularly , to avoid at all costs turning opportunities into threats .
Obviously , in order to achieve this , there are two issues which are crucial in all areas .
This certainly holds true for globalisation , which permits greater growth in wealth , international trade and productivity .
This is in fact not the first time that a technological transition has changed the social model and the model of economic organisation .
At such times of profound change , problems , particularly those concerning employment in the old economy , have been resolved by turning to the new economy and its resources .
To give an example , in Europe we have a textile industry .
We must maintain a textile industry in Europe , but this will only happen if we are able to apply the technologies of the information and knowledge society .
Lastly , I would like to answer a question that I have been asked , which is whether I am speaking here on behalf of 15 or 14 countries .
The answer is simple : I am speaking on behalf of 15 countries .
One of the things that the Portuguese Presidency has guaranteed is Austria ' s full participation in the workings of all of the Union ' s institutions .
This does not prevent the Portuguese Government , and many other European governments , from being not so much in dispute with a particular country , as being engaged in a battle to preserve certain principles and values .
Strangely enough , these very principles and values existed even before political movements such as the Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats .
I am talking about principles and values which come from the Enlightenment and which affirm the supremacy of reason .
Because , if modern societies have one enemy today , it is irrationality in political behaviour .
We could call this irrationality political populism , or excessive nationalism , or religious fundamentalism , or racism or xenophobia .
This is a key issue : unless these values are respected , we may have a healthy economy , we may have jobs , but there will be no Europe .
, Commission .
( IT ) Mr President , Prime Minister , just a few quick comments to close this debate , which has been lengthy but extremely important and constructive .
Firstly , we are not starting from scratch .
Anybody who may think that we have been too optimistic in this debate must understand that we are not starting from scratch .
Europe has the advantages of the single currency and the single market to build on .
Now then , we have to increase productivity in these areas sufficiently to sustain economic growth without inflation .
However , we must be careful .
We may be breaking this debate on Lisbon down into constituent parts , but we have a clear objective constantly in mind : we have to create the economic and social conditions needed for sustained growth .
We have already mentioned economic conditions - efficiency and productivity . We must also create the social conditions needed to prevent the disintegration of society due to income discrepancies , which is one of the greatest dangers .
I stress this because it needs to be borne in mind : the income discrepancies in Europe have widened recently .
This is a problem which will become irresolvable in the future , if it is not already .
Therefore , our responsibility is both economic and social .
In Lisbon , we will have to take some practical decisions .
With regard to this , I would just like to mention a specific point , given that a great many references have been made to the United States .
There was a great deal of public investment at Federal , State and local levels .
These were huge investments , and they were in modern infrastructures .
I warn you that here our direct , and I stress , direct commitment at public and the other different levels is to build telecommunications highways , the roads for these new vehicles to run on .
The market , private individuals and companies will build the vehicles , but it is our responsibility to build the new highways .
Our problem is therefore that of avoiding a crisis in peripheral economies , which does not mean centralisation , nor a centralised programme , but giving peripheral economies the same chances that we give centralised economies .
There is therefore a very clear strategy for Lisbon .
The problem is simple .
We cried on each other ' s shoulders for such a long time , but during this time the seeds of what we had sown with such sacrifice in the early days of Europe were preparing to bear fruit .
It is clear that , at this point , the three processes have to be combined .
Remember the European company : we have not yet reached unanimity over the European company , but hundreds of thousands of companies are demanding it .
You see , all the different pieces are coming together to give direction to Lisbon .
We are able to give it credibility precisely because the Portuguese Presidency has teased out the threads of unification and woven these together to form a tapestry .
Thank you very much , Mr President of the Commission , thank you very much , Mr President-in-Office , for your notable contributions to an interesting and important debate .
I have received six motions for resolutions , pursuant to Rule 37 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure .
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon .
The debate is closed .
( The sitting was suspended at 8.15 p.m. and resumed at 9. p.m. )
Before we resume the sitting I should like to make a comment which I always make at night sittings , but since faces change there are many people here who are not yet familiar with this .
I should like to request that you contribute to the sitting 's reaching a speedy conclusion by keeping to the speaking times .
There are three reasons for this .
The first is the old party rule : the later the evening , the more rowdy the guests .
That does not apply to the plenary . The second is that the people sitting behind the glass screens - the interpreters - also want to go home .
So please , keep to the speaking times and we will make good progress !
Environmental dimension in the development process
rapporteur .
( SV ) Mr President , ever since the Brundtland report of 1987 , it has been clear that a policy which emphasises only economic growth cannot be sustained in the longer term .
The challenge for us all consists in integrating social and environmental considerations .
In spite of the fact that this is a document of several hundred pages , it is a programme which , in general , is well put together .
If further progress is to be made towards the necessary level of integration , an appropriate method has to be developed .
Indicators also need to be selected so as to be able to keep abreast of what is under way in terms of developing know-how , pilot projects etc .
This type of work has been going on for many years in many of the OECD countries .
It could be given higher priority , but it is in fact under way .
Matters are organised rather less well in the majority of developing countries .
There , there is a lack of both knowledge and resources to facilitate the integration of environmental considerations , together with the preventive approach which is the very essence of the decisions taken in Rio .
In this context , aid can play an important role .
The proposed regulation we are discussing today is aimed at ensuring that , in providing aid , the EU fully and completely integrates the environmental dimension into its activities .
So far , there remains , however , a lot to be done in terms of developing methods .
In particular , knowledge and skills within both the Commission and the recipient countries must be increased .
I was responsible for the preparations for this second reading .
My work has , of course , been very much based upon experiences from the first reading and upon the preparatory work for that reading .
On that occasion , Parliament tabled a large number of amendments , of which approximately a third have been accepted by the Council ahead of this second reading .
Analysing the situation , I identified three or four principal points where I think we in Parliament ought to try to amend the Council proposal .
That does not mean that other questions raised at first reading are not important . What it does mean , however , is that we ought to concentrate on those which are most important .
We ought also , in the interests of reaching agreement with the Council , to see to it that we , as far as possible , relinquish what is of less importance .
This is something we ought to support , a fact which also emerges from Amendment No 11 .
Regarding the period of applicability of this regulation , I believe that there is no reason to commit ourselves now once and for all .
I think that the Council ' s proposal is acceptable because an evaluation will take place within four or five years .
This question will then , at all events , return to Parliament .
Finally , I want to mention a question on which there have been , and remain , a variety of views .
This concerns the committee procedure , that is to say how actual implementation of this regulation will look .
Where this is concerned , I take the view that we should try to get away from an arrangement whereby the Member States themselves are directly involved in determining the fine detail of implementation .
They should be involved , and determine the framework and rules , but leave it to the Commission to implement the actual project .
In this connection , we have proposed , in the course of the examination of this proposal , a so-called split comitology procedure , which could be used to excellent effect .
I hope that the vote will ensure that this will also become Parliament ' s proposal .
Might I just ask for one more thing ?
The fact is , we shall need further consultations .
I would therefore propose without further ado that the vote could take place on Wednesday .
It is now our task to counteract this .
In the industrialised countries , significant initiatives are being taken to preserve and protect the environment .
In the developing countries , however , intensive work still needs to be done on designing appropriate policies , strategies and projects to prevent further destruction and to care for the environment .
Measures need to be implemented which , for instance , take account of the consequences of developing countries being integrated into the global economy .
Nigeria can once again serve as an example here , as oil drilling there is causing commensurate environmental damage .
Here too , education and training measures need to be supported in order , in the end , to help people to help themselves .
The content of the regulation must therefore be supported in full , although the budget proposed by the Council is not sufficient by far .
Even at this early stage a considerable increase needs to be considered for when the Treaty or the regulation is revised .
These disasters are in fact the result of extreme climatic changes with which we should be quite familiar , since they are precipitated by human activities , notably those of developed countries .
The greenhouse effect and deforestation also have a considerable impact .
As regards this regulation on the environmental dimension in the development process in developing countries , the Council has broadly taken up the amendments that we presented and voted upon at first reading .
From this perspective we cannot fail to be satisfied .
No programme can be truly effective unless it is conducted in close collaboration with the communities concerned .
Mr President , the key to the development of the less developed countries is that they should have the chance themselves to participate in their own development programmes by identifying the problems themselves and seeking solutions to them .
The new paradigm for development cooperation stresses the notion of partnership , in which the so-called donor of aid is a consulting party .
It must allow scope for the countries concerned to determine for themselves what their problems are , and let them draw up a plan to improve the situation and find a solution themselves .
The most important task aid agencies have is to make themselves unnecessary , all the while ensuring that the work is leading to local action and prosperity .
My colleague , Mr Wijkman , has produced a good report in this respect , one that emphasises this paradigm that is the only successful and morally tenable one .
However , at present , this approach is being applied scandalously badly by the EU as far as scientific and technological projects are concerned .
The EU ' s framework programmes do not extend to developing countries .
In other words , our North African partners , for example , cannot become involved in scientific and technological projects concerning the environment .
Nothing is actually preventing them from doing research but there are simply no facilities for financing projects , as the developing countries do not have access to the consortia as a party applying for funds .
But why not ?
It has been made easier for Eastern Europe to participate .
The matter is even harder to appreciate , when we think of how much we are affected by the problems of desertification in North Africa and the problems that are associated with the Mediterranean area .
We must ensure that no project can be established without input from local researchers .
Mr President , the regulation on the table gives the European Union an instrument and the legal - but also the political - responsibility to ensure that the environmental dimension is integrated into development policy .
To do this , sufficient financial support is of course necessary .
That is why I , like one previous speaker already , advocate voting in favour of the rapporteur 's Amendment No 11 .
Since integrating the environmental dimension is a long-term commitment , I am in principle against limiting the duration of this regulation .
However , the arguments that excessively lengthy negotiations with the Council are putting existing projects - projects which are already up and running - at risk have persuaded me otherwise .
In the same way I support the rapporteur 's proposal on split comitology , whereby decisions on the strategic guidelines would be decided under a management procedure and those on implementation under an advisory procedure .
Hopefully we are reaching the conclusion of a process that started a year ago under the previous Parliament .
So for many of us this is an interesting learning experience .
The previous regulation expired at the end of 1999 .
Since the beginning of this year , the Commission has been unable to make any new financial commitments on these budget lines .
This places the Commission and Europe in an increasingly difficult situation .
Hence our desire to conclude the process of adoption in the near future .
In this context , we have supported the informal negotiations between the Council presidency and the parliamentary rapporteur so as to arrive at a proposal which could be accepted by both parties .
The main areas of difference have been on the financial reference amounts , on comitology and on the duration of the regulation .
I would like to comment briefly on each of these issues .
On the financial reference amount , briefly , we accept the compromise proposals put forward under Amendment No 11 .
Comitology :
In our view , the programme to be funded under the regulation does not represent substantial budgetary implications and hence does not merit a management procedure , an advisory procedure being more appropriate .
Hence the Commission supports , in principle , Amendment No 16 but prefers the wording of Amendments Nos 19 , 20 and 21 .
Concerning the duration of the regulation , our position has been to support an unlimited duration subject to periodic revision following evaluations .
However we are aware that if unlimited duration were to be approved here , this would lead inevitably to a conciliation process .
The final important issue common to both this regulation and the forest regulation are the amendments concerning bank guarantees .
We concur with the view of Parliament that the Commission should not place bureaucratic barriers to the access of some NGOs to financing from Community funds .
For this reason the Commission took a decision in July 1999 only to require bank guarantees for advance payments of over EUR 1 million .
Hence the problem has , to a large extent , been resolved .
Furthermore the Commission considers that such matters are best addressed in a horizontal manner rather than through specific regulations .
For these reasons the Commission does not support the proposed Amendment No 10 on bank guarantees .
Careful reading of the joint position will show that most of the concerns behind these amendments have been taken into consideration but following the structure of the regulation .
Amendment No 12 proposes the raising of the threshold for submission of projects for consideration by the Council from EUR 2 million to EUR 5 million .
Given that most projects are already under EUR 2 million this amendment is considered not relevant .
Furthermore we are concerned that its adoption would lead to a conciliation process .
Therefore the Commission does not support it .
The amendments on procurement and access to the markets - Amendments Nos 13 and 14 - would mean a departure from standard and carefully agreed formulations .
In any event , as with bank guarantees , the Commission does not consider it appropriate that such issues be addressed through special provisions in specific regulations but rather in a horizontal manner .
We oppose Amendment No 15 , concerning the creation of an environmental monitoring union , as this is in our opinion a question of internal Commission organisation which should not be addressed through a regulation .
Such a unit is , in fact , already operational although we intend to strengthen it further .
Lastly , we do not support Amendment No 17 as it does not conform to the usual rules or formulation of regulations and is considered to be redundant .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
If the rapporteur wishes the vote to be postponed I would ask him to request this at voting time .
Our services say that it is possible to do so then .
Conservation and sustainable forest management
The next item is the recommendation for second reading ( A5-0043 / 2000 ) by Mr Bouwman , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism ...
( Mr Bouwman interrupted the President . )
Bouwman .
( DE ) Mr President , I think you are mistaken !
There is another report first .
I would be happy to speak now , but there is another report first .
President .
Thank you very much , Mr Bouwman . I knew right at the beginning of the debate that there was a reason why I was so pleased to see you here in the House .
Please forgive me . My files have got in rather a muddle .
That does happen from time to time in the hectic activity of the night sitting .
Forget what I have said so far .
We will start again .
Mr President , as Commissioner Nielson has already stated , this debate marks the inauguration of the new competences of the Committee on Development and Cooperation in the field of codecision .
This is the financial instrument by means of which the Union can fulfil the obligations arising from the Agreement on biodiversity , the Framework Agreement on climate change and the Agreement on the fight against desertification .
All these agreements indicate that developing countries must be supported in the search for solutions to the problem of their forest resources .
At first reading , Parliament approved a total of 34 amendments of which the Council , in its common position , has totally or partially taken up 18 .
Of the remaining 16 , some , and in particular Amendments Nos 5 and 6 , are no longer relevant following the interinstitutional agreement on the 2000 budget .
The debate and negotiations that we have held with the Council and the Commission have focused on three topics : the budget , dates and comitology .
Mr President , I should like to say that I agree with many of the points made in the report by the previous speaker and rapporteur , Mr Fernndez Martn .
Above all , as with all budget lines , it is very important to discuss the funding these budget lines represent .
One point which is of really fundamental importance to me is made in various amendments - for example , Amendments Nos 2 and 4 - which emphasise the active participation of forest peoples and the indigenous population .
I believe that this is an absolutely fundamental point , especially when we are talking about the sustainable management of tropical forests and other forests in developing countries .
Mr President , Commissioner , Mr Martn , you have certainly described very clearly what your report is all about .
Thank you for that .
But we also all know only too well that not all projects are as successful as we would like them to be .
It is precisely here that there should be no cut in the Commission and the Council 's contributions , because that would almost certainly be counterproductive .
It is also very important for us now for the projects to be able to continue to run without interruption .
Otherwise we can only endorse Mr Fernndez Martn 's report ; the comments made by Mrs Scheele and others are also a perfect reflection of our own thoughts .
Thank you very much for this generous gift to my colleagues .
Mr President , the state of tropical forests is worrying on two counts , as the impoverishment of the forest is not only quantitative but also qualitative in nature .
The biodiversity of our planet is at stake .
He has identified some valid points , certain aspects of which I would like to examine more closely .
It would seem to me absolutely essential to reflect on the scope of the regulation .
Firstly , programmes must be more closely targeted at the rehabilitation of tropical forests .
The Council regulation of 1995 perhaps focused in too exclusive a manner on the protection of tropical forests and not sufficiently closely on the harnessing of their productive potential .
Besides this , future Community actions must take into consideration every facet of sustainable forest management .
This implies respect for the indigenous peoples who depend on forest ecosystems .
There are , of course , forests in which there are no production activities of any type , but there are also forests that continue to fulfil an economic function .
This is the case with our own forests within the European Union , and I would ask my fellow Members what Community aid was provided for European forests after they were decimated by the storm that raged last December ?
We must without doubt take up the challenges laid down in this report , but must also institute a genuine Community policy on conservation and sustainable management .
For these and other reasons , Europe 's citizens rightly expect the Community to support actions to conserve and sustainably manage tropical forests .
The regulation also makes specific reference to the needs of indigenous and forest-dependent people and the need for gender considerations to be taken into account .
We have just discussed the environment regulation and the comments I made then on a number of horizontal issues are also largely applicable to the forest regulation .
For this reason , I will be brief .
With reference to the amendments listed in the Fernndez Martn report , the Commission 's position on the main horizontal issues is as follows .
Financial reference account : the Commission accepts the compromise figure of EUR 249 million over seven years proposed in Amendment No 9 .
Duration of the regulation : in order to avoid conciliation , the Commission 's position is not to support Amendment No 12 , which places an unlimited duration on the regulations .
In our view the seven-year duration proposed by Council represents an acceptable compromise .
Bank guarantees : the Commission does not support Amendment No 8 concerning bank guarantees for reasons outlined earlier .
We are against special provisions being made in specific budget lines as this goes against our common objective , namely , to simplify and unify administrative procedures .
Furthermore , following a Commission decision in 1999 , we consider that the issue has been largely resolved .
Concerning the other amendments , our position is as follows .
The Commission welcomes and supports Amendments Nos 7 and 10 . Amendment No 4 is considered acceptable .
We do not support Amendments Nos 2 , 3 and 6 as we consider that the concepts have been taken into account elsewhere in the regulation following the first reading .
Hence , in the interest of clear and concise legislation , we would prefer that these amendments be dropped .
Amendment No 1 is not supported as in our opinion it brings little added value .
Given the Council 's negative position on this amendment , the Commission would favour it also being dropped .
Finally , we do not support Amendment No 5 as the term ' serious doubts ' is considered to be too subjective , making it very difficult to implement the regulation .
Furthermore , the objective of this amendment , namely , to avoid projects with negative social , cultural or economic or environmental effects , is addressed in Article 4 ( 5 ) on impact assessments .
Thank you , Commissioner Nielson .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
Ship-generated waste and cargo residues
Now , Mr Jarzembowski , is the great moment !
Mr President , Commissioner , we are debating a directive which is extremely - I repeat extremely - rigorous .
We have been discussing the Erika disaster here for the past couple of weeks .
A whole ream of new measures on double hulls , inspection , the inspection of inspectorates , etc are being conceived in the short term .
Disasters of this kind account for no more than 3 % of oil pollution at sea .
Normal shipping operations account for double this amount .
Not only that .
If we consider our beaches , for example in the Netherlands - but also in other countries - 49 % of the rubbish washed up on the shore comes directly from the sea .
Only 15 % is due to tourism and a large proportion is even unaccountable for , although that , of course , must originate from somewhere .
I do not need to say any more concerning the motives underlying this directive .
I will only have positive things to say to the Commission about the quality of the directive .
There was nonetheless a whole raft of amendments at first reading which has been completely endorsed by Parliament .
I believe there were eighteen in total , a large proportion of which have been adopted , with a number of less important ones having been rejected .
These will re-emerge in some shape or form .
I would mainly like to home in on one very important point .
We all share the view throughout the Union that something needs to be done when the seas are polluted .
I would once again refer to the Erika , but there are also other examples .
We are also agreed that the polluter-pays principle must apply .
There is no financial incentive .
Let me illustrate this quite clearly .
Northern countries apply a system in which this financial element is handled in a different way .
Everyone pays , whether they dump their waste in the sea or dispose of it elsewhere .
In addition , there is some kind of financial incentive that contributes in some way or other to ensuring that this waste is disposed of .
Experience and scientific research has shown that this seems to work .
This is , in fact , what we are opting for . If the percentage is 90 % , so be it .
It could also be 75 % , but there should at least be a minimum level , which should be quite inflexible .
Otherwise we will fall back into a variety of systems and it will be years - in a manner of speaking - before we learn from the lesson we have actually already been taught .
I would therefore like to assure everyone that this is why it is sensible to opt for a system in which indirect costs are somehow absorbed in port dues .
If you read the Commission ' s proposal , a country could fall to 0.01 % of indirect costs if it so wishes . I fear that this will be opted for in practice .
This will also be the key point of discussion for the foreseeable future .
There is a whole raft of other factors involved and we have reached agreement on a great many of them .
I do believe that somehow we will make it .
But this is the crux of the matter and I wanted to draw everyone ' s attention to it .
Mr President , Madam Vice-President , ladies and gentlemen , first of all I should like to stress that we had a good debate at the two readings .
May I thank the rapporteur , Mr Bouwman , very much for taking on this dossier and for elucidating it so well .
We are after all at one with the Council on three points .
Firstly , proper port reception facilities for ship-generated waste have to be constructed at every European port unless it already has them .
They must therefore be provided .
Secondly , all ships , regardless of the flag they fly , have to dispose of their waste .
Thirdly , the costs must be borne by the ship .
We agree on these points .
In fact , together we want to put a system in place so as to avoid there being financial incentives to dump waste into the sea .
Firstly , we wish to protect flora and fauna and secondly , there are a large number of coastlines along which , on the one hand , tourists enjoy themselves and on the other jobs are to be created .
That means that we want to have an effective system .
The really decisive difference is the issue of how the disposal costs are charged to the ship .
Mr Bouwman has , of course , already explained this .
Surely if people have already paid the disposal costs then they will actually dispose of the waste in port .
The other system is the pure polluter-pays principle : anyone who lands ship-generated waste has to pay extra for doing so .
This second system has proved to be ineffective , otherwise why would the Mediterranean Sea be so dirty ?
Why would the North Sea be so dirty ?
Because for lack of adequate controls the polluter-pays principle does not work !
That is the decisive issue .
We are prepared to reach an agreement with the Council .
But so far the Council has rejected any serious agreement with us .
That is why I call on the House to support our amendment whereby a significant proportion - up to 90 % - of the costs have to be covered by the general port dues .
This would give us the opportunity to reach an agreement with the Council in the conciliation procedure , whether it be on 75 % or whatever .
That is also why I would make the following request of the Commission : Madam Vice-President , think carefully about which side you stand on !
I believe that in the interests of protecting the environment and of a permanently thriving tourist industry in many countries of our Community it is better to have an effective system .
For these reasons support our ' no-special-fee ' system .
Perhaps then we will reach a reasonable compromise with the Council in the conciliation procedure .
There are a few points at stake tomorrow .
Firstly , we know that the ship is the most environmentally friendly mode of transport for carrying passengers and goods .
At the same time we know that ships make a hefty contribution to polluting the sea with rubbish , cargo residues and oily slime .
The fuel used by ships happens to be heavy oil and we know that this heavy oil leaves a residue of between 1 % and 3 % as oily slime , which is typically discharged into the sea .
I think that we agree that ships have to dispose of waste and residues in port .
It follows - and in fact there is no other logical conclusion - that the cardinal rule for clean seas is that it must no longer be worthwhile for waste to be disposed of illegally on the high seas .
This is what this is about , and a majority of us have said as much in debates here .
In January we had a very thorough debate with you , Commissioner , on the consequences of the Erika disaster .
On this occasion we once again drew together all the points on ship safety and clean seas .
And this directive on port reception facilities for cargo residues is , of course , also about the question of how to make our seas cleaner .
This scandal is not acceptable in the eyes of the Council either .
The Council is after all also saying that all ports must have appropriate port reception facilities available and must be equipped with them .
The conflict now is ultimately over the issue of how payments will be made .
In its first reading , Parliament said by a large majority that the ships must make a significant contribution , of at least 90 % .
And therein lies the difference with the Council , which is saying that a contribution has to be made .
But a contribution might also only mean half a euro and in this case God knows this would be too little .
Nothing would change .
There would be no financial pressure on ships to obey the rules .
The same conditions must apply to all ships in port and only if Parliament , the Council and the Commission create these conditions together will this fair competition be restored for ports and ships .
I think that this is also about the credibility of the Union and , in particular , Parliament .
I think that people are tired of seeing the hypocrisy of Europe and of ministers each time that there is a catastrophe , as we saw of course with ' Erika ' .
We will not be able to rule out accidents altogether , but we can take optimal precautions .
This consistent directive is an important step towards doing this .
Mr President , Commissioner , rapporteur , congratulations on your report .
You have said so yourself just now : we desperately need this directive .
It is a sound directive .
Ports must be equipped with reception facilities .
Inspection is on its way , at long last .
Member States must also impose sanctions when these rules are broken . This is very important .
This is good for the environment .
Investments are already being made , in anticipation of the directive .
For example , in Antwerp , very near to where I live , a huge installation is being built which was not there before .
As such , this directive is already coming into effect in a sense .
There is one point , as already highlighted by Mr Jarzembowski , where we do not see eye to eye .
How do we charge the fees ?
We are all agreed on the polluter pays principle .
But should he pay an automatic full amount or a huge amount in port dues , or do we opt for a flexible arrangement , as is being proposed by the Council .
Where is the best financial incentive , to use your words ?
I have sounded out a number of people on this subject .
The opinions are divided . Habits , apparently , are also divided .
In fact , ports in one and the same region apply different standards and percentages .
There are also ports which change percentages at the last minute , if I may say so .
I believe that as such , it is probably better if we in Parliament do not pin ourselves down on a fixed percentage .
A flexible system under these conditions , as you said so yourself , should make up a substantial part of the costs .
0.01 is clearly not a substantial part .
If the objectives of the directive cannot be achieved , we would expect the Commission to intervene , act , suggest changes and ensure that the system does work .
Fellow MEPs , we must rescue this directive and keep it come what may .
I hope that we will not jeopardise the entire directive on account of a too principled stance on one point .
Mr President , it is not so long ago that many held the view that waste would disappear if you dumped it in the sea or shot it into space .
These days , we know that waste has a habit of reappearing , often in a more harmful form .
Large-scale pollution of the sea and the destruction of the animal life caused by shipwrecked tankers always attracts a great deal of attention .
Far less attention is given to the fact that seas are polluted on a daily basis by regular merchant navy ships and recreational yachts .
It is high time that we laid down a comprehensive regulation which is easy to monitor and which ensures that shipping waste is collected and processed at ports in an environmentally-friendly manner .
We can benefit from practical experience gained in ports such as my home town , Rotterdam .
I am under the impression that the rapporteur has sought the best possible solution and has listened carefully to the comments .
Other solutions would probably have a less favourable effect on environmental protection , and my group can assent to this report on that basis .
Mr President , Commissioner , first of all , I too should like to thank Mr Bouwman for his efforts to broker a consensus of opinion within the committee .
No absolute consensus was found but that ' s politics for you .
Waste management facilities are to be built in ports and I believe this directive will definitely help considerably in limiting marine pollution .
It is now evident , particularly from this debate , that there is a bone of contention here .
I can understand my fellow Members ' concern that many unscrupulous masters will discharge waste at sea in order to avoid paying fees , but I would like to say that there is another side to the coin .
I would like to say that we have made some progress here .
Let us hold on to the progress which we have made with this directive , namely the provision for a charging system based on certain objective criteria .
Mr President , every day five million items of solid waste are thrown overboard from ships .
This rubbish drifts across the seas and ends up on beaches , severely damaging the environment and marine life .
As a result one million birds and a hundred thousand marine mammals and sea turtles are killed each year .
The MARPOL Convention aims to prevent pollution from ships but legislation is clearly necessary to ensure the convention is enforced .
An area where British Labour Members take issue with the rapporteur is the way in which the polluter-pays principle is to be applied .
The principle is one we strongly support but we believe it can be more effectively enforced if Member States retain the power to establish their own charging systems appropriate to their own circumstances .
For example , in the UK the system by which a ship pays the waste collector each time it uses waste facilities , without the port getting involved , works well .
It is based on a consensus which has been forged by all the players , including the ports and environmental groups like RSPB and the World Wildlife Fund .
However , we share the rapporteur 's concern that different charging systems should not lead to greater risk of maritime pollution .
That is why we back the Council proposal to strengthen the review clause to ensure the impact of the directive is monitored regularly .
Mr President , anyone who has witnessed the environmental consequences of the Erika disaster cannot reasonably vote against a report , the aim of which is to ensure that ship-generated waste oil is taken care of .
This is an extraordinarily important report .
It should be emphasised , in this context , that it is not mainly legislation that is missing .
All EU countries have signed the so-called MARPOL Convention , and the Baltic countries have also signed the Helsinki Convention .
The aim of both is to prevent discharges into the sea .
It is a question , rather , of increasing access to port reception facilities and of creating the motivation also to use these .
The Baltic is affected every year by a great many oil spills of greatly varying sizes . In Swedish waters alone , there are hundreds of these each year .
The Baltic is also more vulnerable from an environmental point of view than many other seas .
This is , as I see it , a sphere in which we have everything to gain by cooperating across national borders .
We can never in a million years solve Europe ' s environmental problems alone .
Finally , a word in the ear of those who , for financial reasons , are still hesitant : think what the alternative cost of cleaning up our seas would be .
There will come a time when we shall be able to meet imperatives of this kind .
We shall then be grateful if we have done everything in our power to prevent oil spills .
I would like to make it clear that there is a series of principles which are universal , and with which we are therefore in complete agreement .
First , every port must be equipped with the necessary facilities for the treatment of waste .
Secondly , polluters must pay , naturally .
I agree that there may be discrepancies in exceptions regarding the type of ship or devices for measuring the length of ships .
It is therefore on this issue that effective measures must be adopted because , if we are unable to adopt a suitable solution , then this directive will end in outright failure .
And the only outcome will be that some ports are advantaged and others disadvantaged , all due to fine words on the environment leading to a competitive war between ports .
Any decision that , for example , enables the Member States to grant subsidies to the different ports , would end up distorting competition and would ultimately be ineffective .
I believe that the work we are discussing today is a great step forward .
As you know , the Commission is extremely concerned about marine pollution .
In this respect , I believe that the legislation intended by this directive covers various aspects relating to the delivery of waste to ports .
It obliges all Community ports to be equipped with appropriate reception facilities for waste , and to guarantee the planning of their management , which will be supervised by the authorities of the Member States .
Furthermore , it obliges ships to deliver all ship-generated waste to the port , except where the ship has a sufficient storage capacity to enable it to arrive at the next stage , the next port .
It also obliges ships to notify the port that they are going to deliver waste prior to their arrival in the port , and to pay the cost of the reception facilities .
And this is where the problem lies .
As various speakers have already pointed out , this is where the positions of Parliament and the Commission differ fundamentally .
It is true that we are not specifying what percentage will have to be paid by the ships arriving at the port .
It is true that we are leaving a margin of flexibility for the Member States , but it is also certain that , theoretically , 0.01 , although it is a contribution , is not necessarily a significant contribution .
Perhaps we could incorporate the word " significant " into the text instead of setting a fixed percentage .
But I would try , first of all , to take this step forward , making the position more flexible with the possibility of revising it .
I could go on , but the two reasons have already been stated .
We are all working towards the same goal .
The only difference of opinion is over how best to achieve this goal .
I would ask for support for a more positive position , supplemented - I insist - with Amendment No 16 by Mr Sterckx , which would provide us with the necessary guarantees .
Many thanks , Mr President .
I would like to reiterate my appreciation to the rapporteur and the rest of the Committee .
Thank you , Madam Vice-President .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
Technical roadside inspection of commercial vehicles
Mr President , Commissioner , there comes a time when you have to - what a shame , she is not listening when people speak , that is not good !
A good Commissioner should listen !
Can that be deducted from the time ?
Commissioner , I actually wanted to address a minor comment to you , which applies both to this report and to the preceding one .
There comes a time when you have to come to a decision , because post-Amsterdam the conciliation procedure is the great good .
Parliament is obviously always pleased when the Commission fights at Parliament 's side as its partner and does not necessarily rush obediently to the Council 's cause .
I do not believe that this is necessary here .
I wanted actually to relate this comment to the report before us .
The President has read out a very laborious title .
Mr President , with your permission I will simply talk about lorry inspections ; that would be understood both in Regensburg and in Lbeck , and perhaps the Commission might also perhaps manage to use somewhat shorter titles .
I think that we simply cannot do enough for road traffic safety .
There is a consensus on that .
This directive on lorry inspections should quite simply make a contribution to this .
We are seeing a slight fall in the number of those killed and injured on the roads .
Nevertheless - and regrettably - where the accidents involve lorries the numbers of those both killed and injured are rising .
The causes are often precisely technical defects .
We must not sit back and accept this .
After all , a lorry does around 150 000 kilometres a year .
This is an inconceivably high number compared with a private car .
When it is under a strain of this kind , maximum technical roadworthiness is required in the interests of road safety , environmental protection and not least equitable competition .
Because a fleet of lorries in a poor state of technical repair should certainly not have a competitive advantage , and conversely no haulier should be punished if he keeps his lorries in optimal technical condition .
Now Europeans are obviously not so well behaved that they can manage without checks .
This directive tries to cater for this problem by introducing a graduated inspection procedure until the vehicle is taken out of service .
There has been a high measure of agreement between Parliament , the Council and the Commission , apart from on one problem and that is penalties .
In its common position , the Council makes no mention of any arrangements .
This is obviously nonsense because if I am going to carry out inspections there have to be penalties which I can use as a threat in borderline cases .
Then the Council said - and these might not be its exact words - that the penalties would be directed at the Member States .
No , penalties should be directed at hauliers , lorry-owners and drivers .
That is why - as discussed in the committee - I have now tabled an amendment to Amendment No 2 which contains no reference to the concept of ' harmonisation ' .
That would not make any sense .
Neither is it very European .
If the Bureau , which will be chairing the vote tomorrow , could be informed of this I would be very grateful .
Then we would not have any procedural problems with this .
So , put Amendment No 3 to the vote first .
It would then replace Amendment No 2 .
This is what was discussed in the committee , and then we could have this system very quickly and not work towards a costly conciliation procedure for the sake of a solution which is in principle sensible .
Mr President , everything has been said .
Allow me simply to offer the Vice-President a helping hand so that she might support Amendment No 3 - which replaces No 2 - after all .
In this room there are sometimes Members who say that of course it is sensible to standardise the vehicle inspections in terms of how rigorous and how comprehensive they are .
That is why I think that this Amendment No 3 which Mr Piecyk has drafted as rapporteur is excellent .
He has completely avoided the word ' harmonisation ' .
But he has said what this is all about .
Given the danger to the passengers and also other drivers this would , however , be necessary .
That is why this is not about the question of whether we are in favour of subsidiarity or centralism .
The first principle , Madam Vice-President , is for us all to attach the same degree of importance to the need to improve road safety .
The second argument is that there must be no distortions of competition in the Community .
Could I begin by thanking the rapporteur for his work on this very important dossier , and by congratulating the Commissioner and the Commission for bringing forward this proposal .
We are all very aware that one of the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency , quite rightly , is to tackle the scandalous position regarding road safety in the European Union .
I know they are familiar figures , but 43 000 citizens are killed each and every year .
That is the equivalent to a medium-sized town being wiped off the face of the earth every year .
We therefore welcome this initiative as a means of at least trying to ensure the heavy goods vehicles are as safe as is possible and comply with Community legislation .
Lorry traffic on EU roads is growing both in numbers and in size and we think there are three reasons why this proposal is so important .
Firstly , the safety argument that we have already heard about .
Thirdly , there are also the environmental benefits - the possibility of ensuring quieter and less polluting vehicles .
There is clearly a need for EU-wide random checks , and the UK - my own Member State - has already been applying such a system with very positive results .
I welcome this initiative and I hope it can be put into effect as soon as possible .
Mr President , Commissioner , reforming the directive on annual inspections of commercial vehicles is both urgent and vital .
The rapporteur has adopted a perfectly good position in this issue , in the final analysis .
Drivers of commercial vehicles run up thousands of kilometres every year , and the roadworthiness of the vehicles cannot be monitored adequately by means of mere annual inspections .
Roadside spot checks are also necessary because heavy goods vehicles from non-member countries often enter the area of the Union in bad condition , presenting a serious risk to safety .
The directive will be more efficacious if the Member States can negotiate a harmonised system of penalties .
This should not , however , slow down the prompt implementation of the directive .
Justification for the prompt reform of the directive is provided by something that happened recently in Finland .
The police and the vehicle inspection authorities were conducting a spot check of sixty-two heavy goods vehicles in eastern Finland recently . The drivers of thirty-three of them received fines , and sixteen received a warning .
Three vehicles were prohibited from continuing their journey .
Only thirteen were in fully acceptable condition .
A considerable number of the vehicles in bad condition were from non-member countries .
The worst case was a Polish truck with no brakes in the drawing vehicle , a poorly secured load , and a trailer whose brakes were badly leaking .
Everyone can imagine what sort of safety hazard such a lorry would be on roads covered in snow and ice .
Our group supports Amendment No 3 and hopes the new version of the directive will come into force promptly .
It is precisely in those countries that employment permits and work contracts are not checked up on .
Mr President , Madam Vice-President , ladies and gentlemen , safety on our roads is of great concern to us all .
The best directive will be ineffective in everyday life if it does not provide any penalties for non-compliance or violations .
In any case we must prevent this from being dealt with thoughtlessly , precisely because this is about a directive which provides for rules not only for heavy goods vehicles but also for commercial vehicles carrying people .
Time and again we are all severely shaken when there are major accidents which are due purely to technical defects .
Because of this I am glad that the report is not actually controversial and that Parliament is once again proving to be the driving force in the debate about traffic safety on Europe 's roads .
My particular thanks go to all those who work with such dedication in this field in the committee , in the Commission and in the Council .
Mr President , Commissioner de Palacio , the purpose of the proposal the Commission made in 1998 is to replace the directive concerning annual inspections of commercial vehicles .
The motion proposes the introduction of spot checks , as vehicles have to be deemed roadworthy between tests too .
These spot tests may be carried out at the roadside , at ports and harbours or where trucks are parked .
This is , then , a matter of improving road safety in the EU , which is vital .
A major cause of concern in the European Union area is the poor state of the trucks coming from Eastern Europe .
They need to be dealt with strictly . Being from East Karelia , I know that even if they had one light and the wheel brakes on one side working , it would be something .
The Council ' s common position will improve road safety considerably , and the directive should enter into force as soon as possible .
In establishing penal systems , however , it is important to realise that penalties must on no account be targeted at the Member State , but the driver or company involved .
Enlightenment is a good thing , but , unfortunately , only proper penalties have an effect on hypocrites .
Road safety is a serious matter .
I recall a tragic accident in Helsinki a few weeks ago in which a wheel that had come off a lorry killed a small child .
We can never assume too much responsibility when it comes to human life .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , once again I would like to thank the rapporteur , Mr Piecyk , and the corresponding parliamentary committee for the work carried out .
It is certain that the rapporteur is entirely correct in saying that the title is very long .
The proposal requires that the Member States supplement the annual technical inspection by carrying out spot checks in proportion to the fleet of commercial vehicles in circulation annually on their roads .
These inspections may be carried out by the roadside , in ports and in other places where vehicles park , or , as is more frequent in the case of public service vehicles , on the operator 's premises .
This may in fact be the best way to effectively monitor the state of the vehicles in circulation on our roads .
We also accept Amendment No 1 , and I would like to refer to what Mr Bouwman said .
Once again , I would like to reiterate my appreciation of the quality of work carried out , not only by the rapporteur , but by the committee as a whole .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
Closing of the session
I declare the 1999-2000 session closed .
( The sitting was closed at 10.41 p.m. )
Opening of the session
I declare resumed the 2000-2001 session of the European Parliament .
Agenda
Mr President , the second item on this morning ' s agenda is the recommendation for second reading on cocoa and chocolate products , for which I am the rapporteur .
Quite by accident I learnt yesterday , at 8.30 p.m. , that the vote was to take place at noon today .
It was however initially scheduled , I thought , for noon tomorrow .
I have therefore been caught completely off guard by this , and have not even had the chance to draw up the lists of votes and to see whether there are any roll-calls or not .
You know as well as I do that this matter is quite controversial and well reported in the media .
I have been a Member of this Parliament for ten years and I have always been given notice , in my capacity as rapporteur , of any changes to the order of voting .
I should prefer for this vote to be held tomorrow .
It would suit me , personally , and I do not think anyone would have any objection , since it is a relatively brief vote .
Mr President , we do not have anything against postponing the vote .
However , I insist on the other scheduled votes , particularly those on the Lisbon Summit , going ahead tomorrow .
We have nothing against postponement , with this proviso .
The competent services have informed me that tomorrow ' s list of subjects will be rather lengthy .
Mr President , like Mr Lannoye , late last night I too was faced with the fact that the vote on my report at second reading is planned for 12.00 p.m.
The groups have emphatically asked me to urge you not to let the vote take place at 12.00 p.m. but tomorrow instead , as they have not had the chance to apply for split and roll-call votes .
After all , it came as a complete surprise that the vote was planned for 12.00 p.m.
I would therefore ask , also on behalf of many others , to postpone the vote until tomorrow .
Mr Blokland , the officials of the competent services have informed me that your report will automatically be put to the vote tomorrow .
I now ask the House whether it agrees to postpone the vote on the Lannoye report until tomorrow .
If we are all in agreement , that is what the arrangement will be .
Annual legislative programme ( continuation )
The next item is the continuation of the debate on the European Commission ' s annual legislative programme for the year 2000 .
Being a parliamentarian , that does not please me , but I have to accept the situation , for the moment at least , and until further notice .
But this also means that the Commission faces an immense challenge .
If you want to bring about the great turning point you mentioned , Mr President of the Commission , then you had better make a start on this damn quickly .
In the light of this responsibility , Mr President of the Commission , when you made your last speech here in this House , you proposed concentrating more heavily on core tasks .
This could also be described in terms of carrying out or implementing the subsidiarity principle .
However , at the same time , we must be clear about the fact that this must not amount to offloading tasks that are too complicated and difficult for the Commission .
We must also be under no illusions , Mr President of the Commission , as to the fact that we must get straight down to work on these criteria and the core tasks I mentioned .
What distinguishes us Social Democrats from other groups in this House is not so much the multitude of tasks and the number of proposals that are to come , as the direction they are heading in .
We want to reinforce Europe ' s role on the international stage in a clear and unequivocal manner , just as we want to increase its competitiveness .
Above all , we must aim to make Europe more socially aware , to create a Europe of equal opportunities , and to increase security and quality of life within Europe .
That said , we do not want to bureaucratise Europe and neither do we want to centralise it .
That is not how we envisage Europe to be !
If you make these your goals , Mr President of the Commission , then we will be behind you every step of the way .
Moving onto another point : the Commission has passed a long list of its intentions to Parliament .
We decided , in our wisdom , to draft a resolution which may not be quite as long but which provides you with a whole host of proposals and some counter-proposals .
Exchanging lists in this way is not an ideal way to engage in dialogue .
Therefore , in future , we should think of something different .
That would seem to me to make a lot more sense than the course of action we are taking this week - not for the first time , but hopefully the last !
Mr President of the Commission , I would just like to pick up again on your expression " decisive year " .
We must all make it our business to follow the debates on Europe in the various individual Member States , and not just in those we happen to come from .
It is not about preventing globalisation , we would not succeed there in any case .
The only way forward is to form this global outlook on the basis of our own values and diversity .
To this end , therefore , we must work together to bring about a significant improvement in communication , which is something you yourself mentioned .
You are in the process of drafting a communication strategy for the enlargement of the European Union .
If we do not manage to upgrade our channels of communication in this way then our common goal , to wit , a higher turnout at the next European elections , will not be within our sights .
This would be a shame , not just for us MEPs - who may no longer be here in that case - but for Europe as well .
Mr President , my Group would like to welcome the annual legislative programme .
However , we have some concerns about the process .
Indeed , to carry the metaphor further and using the English usage , if we were going to make a meal from these it would be rather long and rather indigestible .
I understand that it has been the normal tradition to obediently produce these lists .
There has been much talk about concentrating on core tasks and of achieving better quality of European legislation rather than more quantity .
All this sits rather uneasily with endless lists .
With this in mind , we produced a one-page resolution highlighting key areas .
However , this has not reached the compromise resolution , so we wish now to put down a clear marker for the future about how this process should be conducted .
This would get away from the shopping-list approach and give more political focus .
It would allow Parliament to participate fully in the process , not just by swapping shopping lists with you .
What we would like to do is catch the imagination of Europe 's citizens .
Mr President , I shall not repeat the general criticism we expressed during the previous sitting of Parliament regarding the orientations of the European Commission ' s work .
The programme submitted to us for this year is generous , to say the least .
It contains some positive elements and some less positive elements .
I should like to draw attention to one area that I feel is rather deficient , the area of social policy .
This would not be too serious if significant progress had been made during the five previous years , but this is not the case .
Indeed , in terms of social policy , the Commission and Parliament have the opportunity to promote many things .
According to the terms of Chapter I of Title 11 of the Treaty , in particular , I am thinking specifically of problems to do with working conditions and improving the working environment .
Regarding , in particular , the health and safety of workers , we are now governed by the terms of a directive dating from 1989 .
In my opinion and in the opinion of my Group , this directive is due for re-evaluation , particularly in the light of a significant study published in 1997 by the Dublin Foundation .
This shows a general decline in working conditions in a number of important sectors .
This needs looking into and I would like to see the Commission investigate the matter thoroughly and assess what needs to be amended in this directive in order to improve the situation .
In this respect , I should like to make two firm requests on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance .
I should have liked to present these as demands from Parliament but it is enough , today , for them to be firm requests .
For example , in the environmental field , we have a White Paper on civil liability in environmental matters .
This is an important step forwards , but let me remind you all the same that this White Paper is the follow-up to a Parliament resolution adopted in 1994 , that is to say , six years ago .
And after the White Paper we shall probably have to wait a long time before we have the directive .
This shows just how slow the procedure is and , in order to give reasons for this slowness , I feel it would be important to have an interim report .
My second point : when a legislative proposal is announced within the legislative programme and is not achieved by the end of the current year , then we should know the reasons why .
Let me give one example of this .
Today , a proposal for a directive on electrical and electronic waste has been announced .
This proposal has already been put forward several times , but has never been tabled .
President Prodi , a friendly word of advice .
Mr President , I welcome the broad thrust of the proposals published by the Commission in its annual legislative programme for the year 2000 .
The most important issues that will be addressed this year will be the reform of the EU decision-making procedures , so that the enlargement process can take place in a streamlined and structured manner .
As a Member of the Parliament from the constituency of Connaught Ulster in Ireland , a peripheral part of this Union , I strongly believe in real and tangible representation for smaller Member States within the EU structures .
At present , the five larger Member States have two posts within the European Commission and there is one each for the smaller Member States .
Whatever the reform , it is vitally important that smaller Member States retain their right to nominate a Member of the Commission .
Undoubtedly , the European Council , representing the fifteen governments , will have to reform its structures .
From an Irish perspective , I strongly believe that Member State governments must have a veto over tax changes at EU level .
No changes at present can be agreed at EU level concerning tax policies without the unanimous support of all EU Member States .
I believe this is an important right , which should be left in the domain of national Member States .
In my own country , the tax regime is quite innovative in many ways .
The tax burden on middle and lower income workers has been steadily reduced , while sensible tax breaks have been given to encourage business enterprises .
This cannot be said of many of the other Member States .
Any proposal to give the European Council the power of qualified majority voting on justice and home affairs would be , I believe , very unwise .
In conclusion , can I say that I am very pleased that the President has , this morning , referred to fisheries .
He said he believes it is lagging behind - that real progress must be made in the year 2002 , because fisheries are established in areas where there is no alternative source of employment .
Of course we want to ensure by the year 2002 that the countries that suffered most when the common fisheries policy was put in place in 1983 will in future receive a fair and equitable share of the resources .
In conclusion , can I say that on a broader level it is important that the European Union , as an economic entity , does not fall behind in the global search for e-commerce opportunities .
The Commission must support educational and training programmes , to ensure that business structures take account of the opportunities which can be secured from the Internet and e-commerce in general .
An information technology revolution is certainly upon us . We cannot be passengers when these changes take place .
We must be leaders of our business communities and of our educational institutions , so that information technology initiatives are incorporated into all key social and economic sectors of our society .
Mr President , Mr Prodi ' s Commission will not last for five years because people will not , in the longer term , put up with detailed regulation from Brussels .
It is perhaps difficult to know who is going to provide the salutary shock , and when .
That is often the case with historical new departures .
Coincidences play their part and minor matters can suddenly loom large because small things come to symbolise what is fundamental .
The fundamental paradox is that the Union identifies itself as being more and more democratic , at the same time as democracy is being quite systematically cut back in our countries .
Last month , Mr Prodi talked of a radical decentralisation of the Union ' s activities .
It is Orwellian to a T. Under the heading of ' decentralisation ' , centralisation is taking place .
Under the heading of ' democracy ' , democracy is being dismantled .
Under the heading of ' greater transparency ' , the Commission is proposing an arrangement through which documents that are at present available for public inspection will be locked away .
When he took up office , Mr Prodi solemnly promised - before our Group and here in the House - a completely new approach to transparency .
We were to be able to have access to any document , once the Commission had given it to others .
The elected representatives of the people would no longer be the last to be informed .
We should no longer have to sit in the committee rooms looking at the students from the Permanent Representations , in possession of documents to which we ourselves have no access .
We should no longer have to tolerate a situation in which the employers in the European Union or the farming industry ' s COPA can consult documents which we ourselves cannot obtain .
It is fundamental to a democracy that the executive should serve the electorate and the electorate ' s representatives .
In the EU , the legislature has been transferred to the executive .
The elected representatives of the people are awarded monopolies on power , while fundamental documents from the decision-making process are kept secret .
At the Conference of the Presidents , we decided to summon the ombudsman and Mr Prodi to a discussion concerning transparency .
I hope that Mr Prodi will say : ' I am sorry , I was not aware that my officials were doing the opposite of what I had promised .
I stand by my words . Here is my signature to the transparency that was promised ' .
Thank you , if there is , in fact , anything to say thank-you for .
I would particularly like to thank Mr Poettering for what he had to say in this connection .
In the run-up to the Intergovernmental Conference , special emphasis is being placed on the European Union ' s ability to function , which is in every sense pre-requisite to the success of the European unification process .
However , in refusing to talk - albeit only bilaterally - and thereby causing a breakdown in communication , the 14 EU partner States are putting this self-same " ability to function " at great risk .
The Commission must not stand idly by in a situation of this kind .
It has a duty to see to it that the solidarity enshrined in the Treaties is upheld .
In acknowledgement of my responsibility as a parliamentarian , I myself sent a letter to this effect to all the Heads of Government yesterday .
Mr President , I would first of all like to thank the President of the Commission , Mr Prodi , for his work programme .
I concur with the remarks made that there should be more focus , but also that it should be better tailored to the five-year plan .
It seems as if we are talking about two different documents .
The first chapter of the work programme is entitled : " Europe , its neighbours and the world " and rightly so .
I have permission to quote one of the first sentences from this chapter : " the Union must be active on the regional and world stage . "
In our opinion , it is also essential that the Commission ' s role be reinforced in the field of foreign policy .
We want to project a much stronger , united front as far as this European foreign policy is concerned .
But the instruments involved are also an important factor . They help in the analysis of non-military crises and help us to act on them quickly .
If we look at Mozambique , for example , how long have we had to wait before real action could be taken ?
This is about very concrete issues , such as transport capacity .
To this end , we need swifter coordination within the European Union .
Take the enormous cattle losses Mongolia has suffered .
We know that there are funds available in TACIS and ECHO within the European Union .
But why are we not helping out ?
This is because there are too many bureaucratic hurdles .
The EU ' s overseas dealings will need to be better tuned to our need for a stronger , future European foreign policy .
In short , operational implementation is central .
Relations with Russia are of vital importance .
We find ourselves in a situation in which we cannot afford to fall behind the Council of Europe , which has levelled criticism at Russia concerning its Chechnya policy .
It is extremely depressing to note that freedom of press is still not guaranteed in Russia .
We had invited the journalist , Mr Babitsky , to visit us next Thursday , but this was vetoed by the Russian authorities .
I hope that the European Commission too , will protest in the strongest terms to the Russian authorities .
Mr President , Mr Prodi , when a parliament discusses legislative priorities then everything becomes a priority .
As far as I am concerned , the top priorities are : employment - and , consequently , economic growth - and quality of life - and therefore environmental protection , food safety and consumer rights .
I should now like to make a few comments on economic and social matters .
One of the Commission ' s initiatives , which deserves a high priority , is the e-Europe initiative .
Yesterday we discussed the Lisbon Summit for the economic and social revival of Europe .
Shared objectives for growth in order to enable us to move towards full employment are something I have hoped and prayed for .
Full employment does not mean the total absence of any form of unemployment . There will always be some cyclical unemployment , with workers looking to change jobs , young people entering the labour market .
But full employment will be restored when there are no longer any long-term unemployed and when every young person is offered at least one training course within at least six months of entering the job market .
It is possible if we invest to a greater extent in what Mr Guterres yesterday called ' human capital ' , i.e. basic education plus , most importantly , lifelong training .
In this context , the e-Europe initiative comes at just the right moment .
In future , the computer-related content of jobs is going to be increasingly marked , but we have a lack of workers qualified in this area , as do the United States .
That is why the American Senate has made available a quota of almost 500 000 visas for a period of four years , reserved for highly qualified immigrant workers .
What we should be doing is educating our own intelligent young people and keeping them in Europe .
A Commission document has just shown that half of the young people who pursue postgraduate studies in the United States go on to stay there .
In order to keep our brainpower , to attract the best brains and to train them further , we must make massive investments in research and development .
Surely this provides the rest of Europe with an example to be followed ?
In this connection , I should also like to applaud Commissioner Philippe Busquin ' s initiative to create a European research area .
Improved living conditions , employment and the quality of employment will continue to be intimately linked to our ability to make European research more dynamic .
Along the same lines , a proper European patent , the development of venture capital and support for young businesses are also of crucial importance .
Last night President Prodi reiterated my expression regarding Europe ' s lack of future prospects .
We all know that we are living through a paradigm shift with the advent of the information society and the development society .
But , in a world where 1.5 billion people are still living without electricity , providing every citizen in the world with access to the Internet society is not going to be achieved in the immediate future .
The annual legislative programme is the most concrete manifestation of the European Commission 's key constitutional and political power , namely the exclusive right of initiative .
Such power must at all times be rigorously justified and clearly explained .
Yet this year 's work programme , as in all previous years , does not provide detailed justification for each of the multitude of new measures proposed .
A 15-page general summary does not exactly do justice to the 500 initiatives cited in the annex .
In future , the ELDR will therefore insist that there is clear justification for , and specialised parliamentary debate on , all measures announced in the work programme .
In other words , it is now high time for a comprehensive overhaul of the somewhat antiquated way in which this crucial programming document is developed and debated in future .
Mr President , I would like to thank the President of the Commission for giving us two speeches within the space of 24 hours .
The Commission President 's speech this morning raises three concerns in my mind .
Subsidiarity must be seen to apply : it must be clear that we are not legislating where it is not necessary to do so .
The second concern relates to budgets .
On behalf of my group I would like to caution the Commission not to go ahead at this stage with shifting agricultural expenditure from category 1 to category 4 .
Lastly , a word of caution about the question of information .
This is what bedevilled the relationship between our Parliament and the previous Commission : the fact that we , under the Treaties , have access and the right of access to all information in principle .
It looks as if we are running into difficulties with our framework agreement .
As Mr Bonde rightly pointed out , we should have a European Union where there is a free flow of information from the bureaucracy to all our citizens .
Mr President of the Commission , when you entered upon your duties , you said that the Commission would be characterised by openness .
A lot of other people have also said that here today .
But what is the situation now ?
Why are the Commission ' s press conferences no longer being broadcast directly via satellite television so that everyone in all parts of Europe can follow what is happening ?
I hope that Mr Prodi is listening .
Regarding your letter to Mrs Fontaine about the ombudsman , Mr Prodi , do you consider that the ombudsman is bound by any principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions ?
Where , in that case , do you find a legal basis for this view , and do you believe that such a principle can suppress the ombudsman ' s right to express himself freely in the press ?
The main question , however , is that of whether the principle of loyal cooperation should take precedence over the right to express oneself .
Where is the basis for a principle in accordance with which you could suppress this right and make such demands upon the ombudsman ?
Mr President , the report you have presented is ambitious and complex , and I will only touch on a few points .
We consider that , with the implementation of the geo-political processes , the Mediterranean border is just important as eastward enlargement , which both Parliament and the Commission are working on .
Two : the internal market .
Working in the European Parliament , we can see that harmonisation of the existing legislation on civil law is essential .
In all probability , we ought to start work in the field of administrative law as well .
Moreover , every day , we become more aware of the need for a common legal system coordinating the different legal systems of the Member States .
Three : the preparatory documents .
I can only add my voice to the requests to limit the use of preparatory documents , which are presented several times by several different people in the European Parliament .
Lastly : the Commission ' s Work Programme seems to overlook two sectors which are in need of particular attention from the European institutions , especially in the light of the developments constantly taking place in e-commerce .
I feel that the Commission should submit proposals on the out-of-court settlement of disputes over on-line contracts and on amendments to the Directive on distance contracts , in order to provide increasingly effective consumer protection .
Mr President , with regard to fishing , I am not going to go into the details of the Commission ' s legislative proposals .
However , I would like to hear a clear commitment from the Commission that it will seek a solution for the speedy transposition into Community law of the recommendations of the regional and international fishing organisations .
Delays in transposition are an endemic problem in the Commission .
The Commission is always accusing Member States of not transposing its decisions and directives into their national legislation , while it is doing exactly the same thing on an international level .
From the point of view of this institution , there are serious doubts as to whether this is the best way to resolve this problem .
Mr President , the previous Commission worked under the motto " do less in order to do better " , as opposed to the supposedly active approach of the Delors Commission .
As we know , it is a question of quality rather than quantity , which was also mentioned by both Mr Schulz and Mr Swoboda , speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group .
The question is in which direction this Commission is heading .
I hope that this Prodi Commission is not one which does less in order to do it better , but rather one which does what has to be done .
To this end , I hope that the Commission will bear in mind the points of view being expressed in the European Parliament .
In this respect , I would like to refer to the codification of Community law .
At the moment , Community law is an impenetrable jungle , absolutely incomprehensible to the citizens of the Community , including those whose profession involves the exercise of the law .
Finally , Mr President , I would like to remind you of a text which is mentioned in the Commission communication .
It is point 2 ( 3 ) on the statute of the outermost regions , which is to be implemented by the Commission .
Today the Commission is to speak of the first document in this field , and I hope that , in doing so , it will take account of the requirements of these outermost regions of the Community .
Mr President , the President of the Commission will not be surprised if I speak to him about the internal market .
What has the reform of the Commission to do with the internal market ?
The answer is a lot .
This guiding principle is mainly the protection of the Community ' s financial interests .
That is clearly of concern to all of us , but it is only a starting point .
From there on , the Commission must begin to work , and must fulfil its obligations in accordance with the Treaty .
Allow me to give you an example , since the speaking time allotted to me does not give me much opportunity to expand on this idea .
Let us consider the intended reform of the infringement procedure .
What is the intention there ?
It is simply said that this administrative procedural law will not be created , but rather demands will be selected .
How can this be ?
How can these things be selected in a purely arbitrary way .
From the point of view of this Parliament , this type of arrangement cannot be allowed . We understand that the Commission has to be reformed .
Thank you , Mr Prodi , for your presentation and your documentation .
Congratulations on using the Internet for the general public - a very good idea .
I will start with trade .
We agree with you that we need a rules-based trading system .
It is essential .
It displayed incredible insensitivity to the legitimate concerns of the developing world and , frankly , the developing world has little so far to thank the WTO for .
Please , can we have detailed proposals in the next three months about how this will happen .
Innovation and knowledge - very appropriate for a new century .
How much innovation has taken place in the Commission , or indeed in the Parliament may I say ?
We had a White Paper on innovation some years ago - what has happened since ?
One thing I would like to say very strongly is that we are very concerned in follow-up , not simply in excellent communications , which we welcome , but in follow-up , follow-up , follow-up ! ! ! !
We have under way the Fifth Research Framework Programme - what has happened to what was learned in the Fourth ?
What is the dissemination for the new ideas , the new products , the new comparisons of socio-economic systems ?
Follow-up again , please .
We welcome incidentally the formation of a European research area which you and Commissioner Busquin have put forward .
This is an excellent way in which to begin the century .
I welcome the forthcoming communication on enterprise , but I hope that past work will also be looked at before we go ahead with more .
I will now use a tremendous clich truism - ' our greatest resource in the European Union is our people ' .
Is it not shameful that large Member States like my own and Germany cannot supply the number of people skilled in information technology ?
Is it not disgraceful that they are having to attract people from countries where those skills are needed ?
It is a disgrace and I hope that you will take it up when you look at legislation .
A further shocking waste of resources , Commissioner , is that women in technical , scientific and information technology fields are squandering their skills .
I hope there will be a follow-up to the Science White Paper .
Mr President , the internal reform of the Commission has begun .
We welcome that !
This is not the first attempt to turn the Commission into a world-class public service , but we , Mr Prodi , wish to believe in the sincerity and resolve of your promise to this House .
For the moment we have a series of measures and a White Paper .
Go for it !
However , I would like to point out one fault in the document .
For example , there previously were punitive measures or measures for assessing the merits of the civil servants , but , Mr Prodi , they were not used .
The officials responsible , including the Commissioners , did not make use of these measures , of these recourses which existed before .
Now that we are establishing new measures , how do we know they will be used ?
Only you know the answer to this secret .
The lack of motivation amongst excellent civil servants is serious .
We must take action and the example should come from above .
The reform of the Commission , Mr Prodi , should not only protect the financial interests of the Community .
Far more resources are lost through an ineffective and unmotivated administration .
Furthermore , we also have to accept that officials who take responsibility and risks may make mistakes .
You said in your speech that you prefer to make mistakes rather than fail to act .
Go for it , Mr Prodi .
Your task must be an historic task .
You are not the first to try it .
We hope that you succeed .
Mr President , it is interesting that Mr Prodi has presented today a work programme ; however , our agenda says that we are having a debate on a legislative programme .
Looking at it from the point of view of social and employment policy we certainly do not have a legislative programme before us .
In fact we have not had a legislative programme for several years now .
What we have had instead is a process of consolidation and the development of certain convergence processes such as that developed and launched at Luxembourg .
We welcome the Luxembourg procedure .
We hope it will be deepened , strengthened and extended to other areas such as convergence in social protection .
But does that mean that we have done the job in terms of legislation in the social area ?
I think not .
There are a number of areas where we need to update and modernise the social legislation we have adopted in the past .
With the deepening and strengthening of the internal market and globalisation we are seeing an increasing number of mergers , take-overs and transfers within the European Union .
That means that we need to pursue with vigour the general framework on information and consultation at work .
But is it just about updating ?
No .
We do not need any new great raft of social legislation , but there are areas that have not been addressed .
There are other areas .
I had a woman come to see me recently , called Mrs Angela Elliot Mathis , working for Lucent Technologies .
She was head-hunted into the company at a very high level to work as a senior manager and a board member .
She had worked in a range of European countries for high technology companies .
Thirteen months into the job she was dismissed without notice and without reason .
She still has no reason for the dismissal .
The remarkable thing is that she has no protection in either Belgian law - she was working in Belgium - or European law .
Without that sort of protection people will not take the opportunity to live , move and work wherever they can within the European Union .
These are the gaps we need to plug .
Let us do it in the new medium-term Social Action Programme .
Mr President , I want to highlight the areas of the work programme which affect directly the work of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism .
With regard to regional policy , my group would like to see the Commission ensure the full application of the partnership principle at all levels of programming of the Structural Funds .
When , Mr President , will the Commission go further on spatial planning and submit new proposals to develop the decision taken at the informal Council meetings , notably at Potsdam and Tampere ?
Regarding transport and tourism , I and my group welcome the proposals reinforcing transport safety although we need more concrete proposals on road safety and in particular , the issue of blood-alcohol levels and speed limits .
I also welcome the ongoing commitment to the Galileo project and the review of the TENs strategy , especially with its highlight on the railway sector , a sector which we believe to be very important indeed .
However , I have to say to you that my group deplores the fact that several dossiers at this moment are blocked in Council .
We also want progress on both the working time directive and the slot allocation at airport directive , as well as measures to end the misery in air traffic control delays in Europe at this moment .
We are also concerned , President Prodi , at the lack of proposals concerning the tourism sector , a sector in which so many of our citizens work .
I also want to insist that Parliament ' s views and wishes on postal services , often stated in this chamber , are taken fully into account in any new proposals .
In the banana case , for example , we have not so far been able to reconcile the interests of our producers , those in the ACP countries , with the demands of the WTO .
Why not ?
Quite simply because the WTO , according to the Marrakech model , does not permit this , or permits it only with extreme difficulty .
Since Seattle has challenged the inadequacies of existing WTO agreements , I would argue strenuously in favour of the Union handling this issue in accordance with the rules which we intend to see predominate in international trade .
I would make the same call for coherence in another area , the management of the pigmeat crisis .
This is a situation which runs totally counter to our European farm model which is based on a multiplicity of diversified and multifunctional family farms .
My final point concerns the preparation of the budget for 2001 .
Admittedly , the budget lines for agriculture may be examined in order to reflect the need to show solidarity with the Balkans .
Can I take this opportunity to welcome the programme in the context of the five-year strategic plan .
I particularly wanted to congratulate President Prodi on emphasising the issue of governance in the overall planning process .
Therefore , opening up the invisible cities of decision-making in Europe to the citizenry is absolutely vital .
Can I welcome the annual programme in particular because there was one omission from the five-year plan . That was the whole area of education , youth and culture which did not make an appearance at all .
In moulding a greater Europe we have a significant challenge , but mobility in Europe - student mobility for instance - is still very low .
Only 2 % outside the old Erasmus programme of students are actually mobile in Europe , which is not something upon which we can build a new economy at all .
Again , we need a programme of education that matches the best practice across the whole of Europe .
We cannot develop a whole series of initiatives based on , for instance , small businesses or health on-line or whatever without educating people to be literate in those technologies .
This means perhaps looking again at all our educational programmes to see that they match the programmes we are particularly enthusiastic about .
Can I just , in finishing , say that we will have started four new programmes by the end of this year - Media , Culture 2000 , Youth and Socrates .
Mr President , I must object in the strongest possible terms to the proposal , within this legislative programme , to reduce the agricultural budget by EUR 300 million for the purpose of rebuilding Kosovo .
I do not accept that this will simply be a one-off event .
When farmers in my own constituency of Scotland are suffering their worst recession in more than 100 years , how can I explain to them that this EUR 300 million would be better off spent on Kosovo ?
We should be spending more to alleviate this crisis rather than contemplating spending less .
I urge honourable Members , when we come to vote on this issue , to vote against this proposal .
Mr President , I should like to return to the subject of the annual legislative programme , after that digression on the European budget .
I should like just to address one particular subject , which is the issue of what has happened to the initiatives that Parliament took under Article 192 of the EC Treaty .
As Mr Prodi knows , this new article added to the Treaty by the Maastricht Treaty gave Parliament the right to request the Commission to submit legislative proposals .
That is a very good example , but what happened to the other five ?
It seems that the Commission has not responded .
There is no obligation on the Commission to respond , but we would expect the Commission , in a spirit of cooperation with Parliament , to look at these proposals carefully and to respond in most cases .
One out of six is simply not good enough .
We now have an Intergovernmental Conference looking at the Treaties again .
I say to the Commission , if you do not want that article to be amended further then you must take your responsibilities under the existing article more seriously .
I would urge the Commission in future , when Parliament makes a legislative proposal in this way , to take it up , at least in the majority of cases if not in all of them .
Mr President , the Commission has submitted a promising work programme for the year 2000 .
We cannot do other than give this programme our full backing .
However , there are also some unfortunate gaps in it .
There is one gap in particular I would like to discuss ; it is one Mr Jarzembowski touched on just before .
I do not see the work programme make any mention whatsoever of tourism .
We are talking about one of the most important branches of industry here , both within the EU and beyond its borders .
We have long been promised measures for this sector .
It requires improvement as a matter of urgency , but nothing is happening .
But the Commission has other important tasks to perform besides those of a legislative nature .
As Mr Poettering has already mentioned today , it also has a pivotal role as guardian of the treaties .
With that in mind , the Commission - I say this in view of the occasion - has taken upon itself the task of monitoring the activities of one Member State in particular very closely .
As a citizen of the country in question , I do not object to this modus operandi .
Nor will my homeland have a problem with subjecting itself to European scrutiny in matters of human rights , the rights of foreign nationals , and anti-racist policy .
On the contrary , we have shown in the past that our country has one of the best records on all these points , and we intend to keep it that way .
If the Commission is to be the guardian of the treaties then please , Mr Prodi , be thorough in your work .
I have " and so on and so forth " written down here , but I hope that things do not continue in this vein .
Hence I urge the Commission to uphold its role as guardian of the treaties in these matters too , and to remain vigilant .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , thank you for this clear , practical , substantial debate .
The only thing I would ask is that you view my speech as just part of an overall debate which is taking shape day by day .
There has to be a break .
Today , concern was expressed over the length of the list of subjects to be put to the vote .
Well , in my opinion , today was the right time to deal with the list and the right time for in-depth analysis .
Of course , certain areas are missing from this list .
Many of you have rightly expressed the opinion that tourism is a subject which is missing , which , as has been said , is a larger employer than agriculture .
Of course , we must turn our attention to this matter , although , as you are aware , the Commission ' s powers in this area are rather limited .
In any case , the list contains many subjects , the details of which will have to be discussed in committees .
There is therefore a series of issues on which we must work together this year .
However , we also have a major opportunity , which was welcomed by a great many of you today , in that our economy looks set to be sound for at least two or three years .
We must make the most of this opportunity , since , as you have pointed out , we have a major problem with our budget .
Today ' s speeches reveal a precise , but ruthless analysis .
In addition , it is vital for Parliament and the Commission to work well together to make these decisions .
I am fully aware of this .
Last week , I met with the official representatives of the German Lnder to discuss this issue , and we did not confine ourselves to decentralisation at all : the discussion went much deeper than that .
We talked about the levels of governability which need to be adopted in Europe , not decentralisation ..
It is for this reason that I have continued to push for a White Paper on governability .
We are in the process of creating something completely new .
And in order to do this we must work together .
Each year , we present a report on the actions we have undertaken .
In February , we presented an annual report on the actions carried out in 1999 , which we would like to expand .
It already covers all the actions carried out , but we would like to provide more information on our current work .
These are the plans for a great European Union , plans with a specific objective .
If we do not implement these plans there will be no place for us in the new world .
A criticism was made of globalisation , which to me is absurd , for globalisation is already underway . The problem is rather how to accomplish it .
Do we want to play a leading role in this globalisation ?
Do we want behave responsibly in respect of developing countries and the Third World in this matter ?
I feel that this is an extremely important strategy .
There is an obvious need for a collective conscience which will take care of the whole world and not just our own particular interests .
Woe betide us if we try to halt globalisation , for it is the one remaining hope for Italy , for China , for the world which is trying to develop in this global economy .
We cannot stifle these countries at such a decisive moment as this .
This , therefore is our destiny , and our task is to create a Europe which is increasingly able to play a proper role .
And enlargement is a part of all this : it is not just a means of preserving peace , it is a means of defining our role .
To sum up , this overall balance , this sense of mission , this feeling of compatibility which guides the actions of every Parliament and every government , must preside over enlargement , the budget , and governability .
Mr President , I put an extremely topical and extremely precise question to the President of the Commission about his view of the relationship between freedom of expression and responsibility for cooperating loyally with the institutions .
Unfortunately , I did not receive any answer to this question .
It is a question which is being debated everywhere in Europe at the moment , and we should be extremely interested to hear his view .
No , not this time either !
Thank you very much , Mrs Thors .
The President of the Commission has given his answer and we must now continue the debate .
I have received five motions for resolutions , pursuant to Rule 37 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon .
Cocoa and chocolate products
Mr President , chocolate was the topic of a stormy debate at first reading . This was justified and not without results .
Justified because the original proposal focused exclusively on the internal market .
The Commission only took a passing interest in the quality of the product and had no consideration whatsoever for the ethical and legal obligations we have towards developing countries .
The discussion was not without results either .
Upon serious analysis of the common position , it has to be said that democracy works .
We did not sit passively on the fence , muttering under our breath , but took a pro-active approach in tabling amendments .
Should we assent to other legislation ?
Fine , if that is what is to be done , but could we do so on our terms , please .
We only wanted tropical fats ; the common position provides an exhaustive list of them .
We wanted double labelling , the common position has given it to us , only it would have been preferable to have the additional designation on the front of the packaging .
We wanted an impact study .
We are getting one , two and a half years after the directive has entered into force .
We wanted the Commission to draft an amendment proposal , if need be .
Well now , the Commission will need to do so and we can then amend it again if necessary .
We did not want comitology for essential amendments .
We are getting codecision .
And we asked for more precise measuring methods ; in my opinion , the Ispra research institute has acquitted itself of this task quite admirably .
Many of us in this House were displeased with the Commission proposal .
Even if none of the amendments survive , the result is still worth seeing .
I would like to finish off with the following thought .
In the debate on chocolate , the word ethics was used more than once .
To me , ethical behaviour also implies that , if this House scored a victory , we should be able to say so and underline this .
If a victory is achieved , one should be able to enjoy it too .
Perhaps we ought to learn to do this one day .
Mr President , it has taken us twenty-five years to come to the point of a common position which represents a real compromise .
I want to pay tribute to Mr Lannoye .
He is a parliamentarian of considerable skill , and he has argued his case throughout with force and conviction .
But he undervalues his own contribution to this debate , because it is what he has done and others have done that have led us to a position which can be fairly regarded as a compromise .
They do not want to see the addition of vegetable fats anywhere , in any Member State , in any form , for anything called chocolate .
The amendments that came before the Environment Committee , with the exception of the few that were passed , were wrecking amendments .
They were designed to postpone , for the lifetime of this Parliament and the lifetime of this Commission , any resolution of this issue , and that is not acceptable .
They called for impact studies to come into force before the directive itself can take effect or all manner of additional labelling over and beyond the double labelling on the packet which is provided here for the consumers .
My Group supports the common position with some exceptions , and they will all make themselves heard in this debate .
We believe that this is good for consumers . They get a wider choice of product and separate and distinctive labelling .
It is good for the manufacturers of all the vegetable fats and I include cocoa butter in this .
The last point that I have time to make is to the producers of quality chocolate by the specialised methods we see in Belgium and some other areas .
Quality argues for itself .
You can have additional labelling if you want .
People like me will continue to eat it , but we want people to have the widest choice of all the products which will expand the import of cocoa and added vegetable fats into the European Union .
Mr President , the average citizen who hears about this debate on the chocolate directive will lick their lips at the thought of feasting on all kinds of delicacies .
After all , chocolate is also considered a stimulant , unfortunately .
This agony will come to an end today .
There are many interested parties in this discussion : the cocoa producers , the producers of vegetable fats , non-governmental organisations , chocolate producers and many more .
They are all interesting in their own way , but most interesting of all is the consumer , in my opinion .
The most important principle is that of the consumer ' s freedom of choice .
We politicians need to show some prudence in this respect .
After all , there is no accounting for taste .
The European Parliament cannot and should not prescribe a harmonised euro taste .
As far as we are concerned , there is no need for warnings in flashing neon letters on the front of chocolate packaging .
After all , chocolate is not exactly a product like cigarettes .
There are , of course , other interests which need to be taken into consideration .
For example , we need to be aware of the precarious situation of the countries where the ingredients for chocolate originate .
Prudence is called for once again .
After all , there are conflicting interests involved .
The countries that Ivory Coast exports cocoa to also import other competing ingredients from countries such as Mali and Burkina Faso .
The Council ' s common position as it is now before us attempts to accommodate all these interests .
We feel that it is lacking in one or two areas .
The best that can be said of this compromise is that none of the parties involved have been indulged completely .
There are no winners , but there are no losers either .
Most members of the Liberal Group can tolerate this precarious balance .
We therefore support the common position and believe that the directive should be adopted as soon as possible .
Let us proceed with the order of the day and put chocolate to its intended use , namely enjoyment .
Mr President , Commissioner , since we cannot reject the directive on chocolate which is , as it stands , unacceptable , Parliament is duty bound , at the very least , to improve it .
In the first place , we must ask ourselves what is the relevance of this directive which is going to change the definition of chocolate .
The European Parliament must be aware that the Codex Alimentarius , which dictates the composition of chocolate internationally , stipulates that it is made from cocoa butter .
In authorising the addition of 5 % of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter today , the European Parliament is opening the way to many other impostures .
What is there to stop us , in future , describing oil to which palm oil has been added as olive oil ?
In the second place , if the text of the common position goes unchanged , then consumers will be needing a magnifying glass in order to examine the composition of chocolate products .
Finally , as producing countries , already aware that cocoa prices are today at rock bottom , we are in danger of making them collapse completely , if we adopt this position .
In order to avoid chaos in producing countries , the European Parliament must demand an impact study on the export situation .
I therefore call upon you to support all the amendments presented by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection .
Mr President , Commissioner , as all chocolate-lovers know , proper chocolate is made from cocoa butter .
The addition of any other fats spoils the flavour .
Indeed the 1973 directive , which prohibited the use of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter , was intended to safeguard this quality .
With the inclusion of new countries in the European Union , some derogations to this strict ban came to be granted .
Harmonisation was essential in the name of the free movement of goods .
At first reading , Parliament got involved in a dangerous procedure of accepting the directive subject to certain conditions .
The Council leapt into the breach , adopting its common position , which recognises the designation ' chocolate ' even for products with other vegetable fats added .
Once again we see the concept of profits for the few triumph over quality for all .
At second reading , however , the European Parliament can thwart this directive which would have serious implications if it were applied .
Both consumers and small specialist chocolate-makers would suffer a reduction in quality and standards would be reduced to the lowest level .
ACP cocoa-producing countries would experience a considerable reduction in their market and their income .
This would involve more than USD 300 million for the Ivory Coast alone .
To say that they are extremely worried is an understatement .
We have therefore tabled a motion to reject the Council ' s common position .
The small specialist chocolate-makers came to warn Members of Parliament at January ' s part-session in Strasbourg .
So , I ask all the Members who declared their solidarity with them to support our motion .
Mr President , consumer protection is our prime concern .
The issue of the directive on the production and sale of chocolate is thus just as important .
The European Union must lead the way in simplification , confidence , authenticity and respect for differences .
Since 1973 , European legislation has stipulated that the designation ' chocolate ' must be given to products containing only cocoa and cocoa butter .
Some Member States have enjoyed a derogation from this law since acceding to the Union .
That is fine , let everyone have their own chocolate bar in their own home .
This labelling frenzy is admittedly necessary since there has been a loss in confidence , but , ladies and gentlemen , if you give up a specific definition of chocolate , then at least do so clearly and openly .
I therefore urge you to support Amendments Nos 29 and 18 .
Tastes are certainly culturally conditioned .
If you yield to the compromise , then a foodstuff will be admitted into our territory which is described as ' chocolate ' but which is not chocolate , as far as we are concerned .
We are defending the concept of authentic chocolate .
Cocoa butter is the very essence of chocolate . Let us respect the guarantee of flavour that it offers .
It is not enough to publish a White Paper on food safety in order to reassure consumers .
We are condemning an entire sector of specialists and SMEs if we accept any other definition of chocolate .
Today ' s vote is a symbolic one .
We must prioritise information for consumers and the interests of African cocoa-producing countries , associated to Europe under the Lom Convention .
Surely scheduling an economic impact study years after the application of a directive belongs to the realm of the absurd ?
We want none of your compromise chocolate , we are too familiar already with the Federalist recipe .
' Entente culinaire ' between peoples is a difficult issue , it reflects our differences in too clear and practical a manner , and does not work towards all-out harmonisation .
You should know , ladies and gentlemen , that making Europe tasteless will not contribute to its popularity .
Mr President , for centuries , cows have eaten grass and chocolate has been made from cocoa .
Then , a few years ago , Great Britain , which gave the world meat served with jam , hooligans and Adam Smith , started to feed cows on cadavers and to manufacture chocolate without cocoa .
The checks are pointless in any case , as we are told that the margin of error is 1 % , whereas scientists tell us that it is in fact 40 % .
We are told above all to ' eat and drink without fear , you are protected by the label ' .
Yet the label is a deception in graphic terms because it is illegible and a hypocrisy in scientific terms because the mention of ' palm oil ' , for example , is drowned among the list of ingredients .
Just as in the case of port we are not told ' South African counterfeit ' , for cocoa we are not told ' counterfeit ' .
Then , lacking arguments to justify the chocolate fraud , the multinationals say , ' You must accept 5 % , or there will be wholesale fraud . '
What then ?
All you have to do is call the product ' shea-late ' if it is made from shea nuts , or ' soya-late ' if it is made from soya , but not ' chocolate ' .
The 388 000 tonnes of French chocolate , for example , must be made from cocoa , and the French turnover of FRF 19 billion , for example , must be earned honestly by small specialists .
It is also a financial obligation .
If we do not fulfil it , then we shall be forced to compensate for the losses in these countries under the Stabex system .
It is an obligation in terms of health and food safety , since the substitutes for cocoa , such as Brazil nuts , may cause immunological reactions .
Finally , it is a question of honesty , of morality .
Mr President , Commissioner , genetically modified organisms and mad cow disease were not enough to temper the enthusiasm of those involved in food manipulation .
Humans are continuing to play the sorcerer ' s apprentice , juggling with food safety .
Here , courtesy of industrial lobbying , we have chocolate with added vegetable fats .
Its cocoa content is going to be reduced by 15 % but it is still going to be entitled to the designation ' chocolate ' .
This is the crux of the problem .
There is a clear lack of transparency , and yet we distinguish butter from margarine .
There will perhaps be a discreet entry , in small letters on the back of the package , indicating its new composition .
There will be deterioration in the quality , of course , but also in the flavour , and the goods are clearly not what they are represented as being .
This is unfair competition , with this ersatz , pseudo-chocolate being sold cheaper than pure chocolate manufactured by craftsmen with proper respect for authenticity , ethics and tradition .
On the other hand , it represents a cause for concern among small specialist chocolate-makers and also developing countries which are cocoa producers , whose compensation is being seriously considered .
Finally , there is one major problem , while today we know how to detect vegetable fats in chocolate , we are still incapable of identifying and quantifying them .
There is , therefore , no traceability and the door is open to all sorts of abuses .
As far as we are concerned , the use of the designation ' chocolate ' should be prohibited for any product which contains ingredients other than sugar and cocoa .
We must not mislead the consumer by giving the name ' chocolate ' to just anything .
Europe must not become an accomplice in cheating , in the manipulation of food , at a time when food safety is becoming one of its priorities .
Europe must not adopt the lowest possible standards .
It must ensure the quality of food products and consumer health .
In the light of these principles , we are unable to endorse the aims of this directive .
Rejecting it would represent a strong message to our citizens and a responsible attitude adopted by Parliament .
This is the thrust of our amendment . If not , when will we see wine made without grapes and butter without cream ?
But is this actually true ?
I will start with the information for the consumer .
The Commission has freely admitted that there is no foolproof detection method .
The margin of error is 2 % .
At 5 % , this is even 50 % more .
This seems to be unacceptable to me .
Furthermore , inspection depends on the type of chocolate and the information which the producer wishes to provide .
We are not taking ourselves and the consumer , in particular , seriously if we introduce a directive which we cannot monitor adequately .
I would now like to comment on the third-world interests . It concerns me greatly that both those for and against the common position keep bringing up the same arguments .
Those " for " claim that the common position will benefit the third-world counties while those " against " say that more than 1 million farmers in western Africa stand to suffer from it as a result .
Which is it and which will it be ?
Is it really asking too much to want to check what the effects of this directive will be on , for example , export and the sustainable development of cocoa-producing countries ?
Finally , ladies and gentlemen , I really need to get something else off my chest .
Rightly or wrongly , it is said that this Parliament should not accept any amendments at the risk of jeopardising this delicate compromise .
Well , if that is the case and if that is an argument , I suggest we pack our bags and go home now .
Each common position always strikes a delicate balance between national interests , environmental conditions and social considerations .
Mr President , one of the joys of spending time in Belgium and France is the pleasure of these countries ' chocolate .
It is wonderful , but millions of people in Europe also enjoy the British product . None of them come to any harm in the process .
Whatever its content they are happy to call this product chocolate .
It is insulting for us to play semantic games about the definition of this word .
The citizens we represent are not fools .
They can tell the difference between different varieties of chocolate and they have to be allowed to decide for themselves .
I have no doubt that this compromise will help the overall market increase .
Mr President , on the present issue I represent a minority of the members of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left .
I consider that there is really no need for this directive and that it is unnecessary .
I think it is absolutely excellent that we should have different rules about chocolate in different Member States .
In this area there is no need for harmonisation at EU level . Instead , the previous system can be retained .
In that way , you can still have both sorts of chocolate and choose which you want to buy according to personal taste or national tradition .
The alternative , that is to say of prohibiting other vegetable fats , means also prohibiting a large quantity of chocolate products which people like and are used to eating .
I think that is completely unnecessary .
Nor is it certain that the Third World , all in all , would benefit from other vegetable fats being prohibited as added ingredients .
For one thing , other tropical fats such as shea butter would be treated unfairly , and certain countries would in that way suffer .
For another , the total market for chocolate products would probably decrease and thereby also , perhaps , the level of consumption of cocoa butter .
My conclusion is that I should ideally like to see the old arrangement maintained , with different rules in different countries .
However , since that is no longer possible , I think that the common position is acceptable .
Mr President , in many ways , I think that we are about to end up with a good compromise on the directive relating to cocoa and chocolate products , thanks especially to Mr Paul Lannoye ' s efforts .
I am very much in favour of clear labelling .
There are absolutely no objective criteria for saying that , and the Council is quite rightly leaving it to consumers to judge the quality .
We must not forget that shea nuts are just as essential to the countries which export them as cocoa is to the cocoa-exporting countries .
Any future investigation of the effects of the present directive upon developing countries ' exports ought therefore also to include both cocoa and shea nuts .
What , for me , is most important of all is that there must be no enzymatic or genetic modifications to the vegetable fat in chocolate .
A ban of this kind is the only means through which we can give developing countries a guarantee that they can go on at all exporting the goods which they produce by natural means .
Mr President , Commissioner , it is a known fact that chocolate made from pure cocoa butter induces a state of euphoria .
The same cannot be said for this directive which we had absolutely no need of .
Nor , surely , can it be said of this chocolate adulterated with vegetable fats recommended by the Council , which unfortunately did not follow the European Parliament ' s recommendations at first reading .
Indeed there would be a great deal to say about the attitude of some delegations within the Council .
Today ' s consumer has had enough of being deceived .
What is the Council putting forward to solve the problem ?
A tiny piece of difficult-to-read information , hidden on the back of the product wrapper .
This is not what we are asking for . The consumer will not be able to make an informed choice .
We want the information to be obviously and clearly displayed on the front side of the product wrapper .
This is what we achieved in the European Parliament at first reading .
We know that the cost of the fats capable of replacing cocoa is much less .
That is why big industry is so much in favour of them .
Making things cheaper and cheaper : what image of Europe does that present ?
No matter nowadays what the consumer wants , what the consumer ' s preferences are , no matter the fact that public opinion wants ever greater transparency !
Who today can claim to be able to monitor this infamous 5 % of vegetable fats which would replace the pure cocoa butter ?
Nobody .
So what is to be done ?
Let us , fortunately , trust our SMEs , the small specialist chocolate-makers , who are going to have to work on a quality label .
This is what the consumer wants .
And let us , most especially , support our rapporteur , Mr Lannoye .
Thank you very much , Mrs Grossette .
Welcome
We shall all do our utmost to ensure that the visit by Mr de Croo and his colleagues is a great success .
Cocoa and chocolate products ( continuation )
Mr President , Mr De Croo , after debating for 25 years , we are gathered here once again to discuss chocolate , such a polemical debate for such a sweet subject .
We are talking about harmonisation , the harmonisation of tastes , of habits and , almost , of cultures .
In short , chocolate is a dividing factor and the divisions are neither ideological nor even national , whatever some parties might think .
What makes defending cocoa-producing countries an ideological matter , I ask you ? It is an ethical matter .
In terms of the social aspect , we are talking about millions of families who make their living from cocoa production .
We have made formal commitments to them .
So what is the reason for this time limit ?
Sixty-six months to carry out a study of the impact of this directive , such a time period is enough to cause irreparable damage to the export structures of these countries .
The potential impact must be investigated in advance , that is clear .
Any other sort of harmonisation would mean lowering standards and that is not the sort of Europe that the consumer wants .
Mr President , rules make sense if their purpose is to protect people against the power of money , against health risks and against poverty .
If the European Union lays down rules governing the production of chocolate , then these should be geared to protecting the cocoa farmers in the third world , especially in Africa .
Rules are also important to protect consumers against genetic modification and against the addition of unexpected substances .
Lastly , rules are important to protect expertise and craftsmanship within Europe .
What is now threatening to happen is at complete odds with this .
Should free trade be granted absolute priority ?
This may fit in rather well with the development currently taking place within the European Union .
The price to be paid for this , by African farmers in particular , is too high .
I value the attempts made by Mr Lannoye to keep these negative developments within bounds , but it would be better still to continue to offer full protection against the processing of other products and cocoa butter .
Whilst I respect the commitment of the rapporteur to his cause , I suggest to the House that is nonsense .
Mr Lannoye says that he has gone back to retable some of the original amendments .
I suggest to the House that this is not a time to go back - this is a time to move on , to move forward .
This is a single market issue ; this House should not be standing in the way of the completion of the single market but should be actively promoting it .
If I could share one brief historical fact with the House concerning my own country : the first mention of solid chocolate being sold in the UK was in 1657 when a Frenchman opened a shop in London .
Mr President , 25 years ' discussion of the great existential issues surrounding chocolate and what it is and is not makes the European Union as an institution look slightly ridiculous .
The present debate has perhaps given me , as a war child , a certain insight into how things were when the peoples of Europe were killing each other for values symbolised by rather more important things than chocolate .
After all , this is not a product which is a threat to people ' s health .
Neither Scandinavian , Belgian nor British chocolate is dangerous .
It is not a product which affects the environment to any great degree .
The whole issue is therefore somewhat ridiculous .
Where is the benefit in that for the Third World ?
Mr President , we are in no position , here in the European Parliament , to state that one type of chocolate is better or worse than another .
Nor can we say that one kind tastes better and another worse .
Rather , we shall leave it to the individual consumer to judge which kind tastes best and is of the highest quality .
Consumer choice is the basic principle of the market economy and , as politicians , we should not be instrumental in running a kind of nanny State .
Malta ' s former prime minister , Dom Mintoff , attempted during the 1970s to reduce chocolate imports and to alter the way in which chocolate was consumed by tourists and by his own people .
With Chinese help , a chocolate factory was built on the island , but consumers did not like the locally produced chocolate and chocolate consumption fell .
Let us not , therefore , make the same mistake as Dom Mintoff .
The proposal that information about the contents of certain forms of chocolate should be provided on the front of the packaging is discriminatory and completely unjustified .
It would be more like the kind of warning you find on cigarette packets .
The chocolate war has been raging within the EU for 25 years .
It has made ourselves as politicians and the EU as an institution look faintly ridiculous .
In the future EU , too , and within a society characterised by diversity , there must be room for two traditions of chocolate manufacture .
We now have the opportunity to bring the 25 year-old European chocolate war to an honourable end for all the parties concerned .
We ought therefore to adhere precisely to the common position .
Mr President , I am Belgian and I am not opposed to the common position .
If the chocolate which I love so much were to be at risk or if the tradition of Belgian chocolate manufacturers were to be in danger , then I would , of course , be opposed to it .
I bought some chocolate here in Strasbourg this morning and the French sales assistant explained to me quite clearly what exactly I was buying .
The designation on the front of the product states : Prestige noir intense 72 % cacao and in gold lettering , which , in France , is quite something , chocolat belge .
So I know what I bought .
In my opinion , the pending directive will make it even easier for producers of quality chocolate to set themselves clearly apart from the others if they so wish .
I do concur with the rapporteur on one point .
The producers of cocoa beans , namely the small farmers in the poor third-world countries , are vulnerable .
So let us now deal with this matter once and for all and ensure that everyone can eat the chocolate they fancy and that a real internal market can be established for chocolate .
Mr President , the common position on cocoa and chocolate products is the result of long and involved discussions .
It constitutes a delicate compromise which was difficult to achieve but which is well-balanced .
Through the common position , the free movement of cocoa and chocolate products was introduced , but with strict conditions governing production and consumer information .
It is permitted to add vegetable fat other than cocoa butter to the minimum quantity of cocoa required in accordance with the Directive , but no more than five per cent .
Only those substances listed in the annex may be used .
They are all of tropical origin and produced in ACP countries .
The presence of these substances must be indicated separately but in the same area of the packaging as the product name and list of ingredients .
Consumers will then be able to choose and to distinguish these products from those which are manufactured exclusively from cocoa .
These conditions and restrictions , which are not linked to health issues , are the fulcrum of the common position .
The common position also provides answers to the questions and concerns of consumers , of cocoa-producing countries and of countries which produce chocolate , with or without vegetable fats .
Any change would seriously upset the balance of the agreement which the Council has agreed upon and would be doomed to fail .
Parliament ' s recommendation on second reading contains two amendments .
The first amendment reiterates the Commission ' s policy , and this can be approved .
The second amendment may nonetheless be approved in principle .
There must be a more thorough examination of the consequences of these amendments against the background of the World Trade Organisation ' s pronouncements and the Montreal protocol .
The other amendments , which were rejected by the Commission ' s Directorate-General for the Environment , concern questions of special significance to the balance of the common position and cannot therefore be approved .
The common position involves a real compromise and is a clear advance on the legislation currently applicable . This hails back to the 1970s and is very incomplete , especially when it comes to labelling and consumer information .
To summarise , it is only Amendments Nos 1 and 2 which may be approved , and this for the aforesaid reasons .
- ( PT ) Mr President , I rise to speak on a point of order concerning the need to uphold the respect due to the European Parliament and its Members .
One of the Members who spoke in this debate was Mrio Soares , who also supported the resolution adopted by a majority of this House .
These unacceptable statements by the Angolan Government not only affect Mrio Soares . They affect all of us who adopted the resolution in question .
- ( PT ) Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I wish to express my total agreement with the speech that Mr Queir has just made on this subject , and to introduce another element into the discussion .
During the last part-session , in February , a debate was held on the situation in Angola and a resolution was adopted by this House .
Mr President , we all have the right to express our opinions in this House and in a democracy .
We may agree with something or we may not .
What is unacceptable is that a state that maintains relations with the EU should be allowed to respond by attempting to undermine the dignity and honour of a fellow Member of this House .
My question is , therefore , whether the President of the European Parliament has already responded to the Angolan Government through its Ambassador in Paris ?
If it has already responded , what was the tenor of its response ?
Ladies and gentlemen , I understand the political , institutional and compassionate motives behind these speeches .
In future , I will keep you informed of the decisions taken , or not taken , by our President , and of the activities for which she gives the go-ahead on your behalf .
I would also like to make it quite clear , however , that as regards the European institutions , this is not only a matter of ensuring that the European Parliament issues a protest and a repudiation .
This House therefore clearly repudiates Angola ' s attitude and hopes that the EU Council Presidency will also clearly voice this repudiation and will not remain silent in the face of these accusations .
I would like to thank Mr Queir , Mr Seguro and Mr Pacheco Pereira for their speeches .
We shall now proceed to the vote .
Vote
Mr President , I regret causing some slight complications as regards the order of business of the plenary .
Following consultation with other members of the Committee on Development and Cooperation I appeal to you to postpone the voting on this regulation until tomorrow .
There are basically two reasons .
One is that the deadline for a request for separate votes on the amendments should have been made by 7 p.m. yesterday .
Because of a misunderstanding that request was not made in time .
To pursue the voting as a block vote today would , to my mind , be unfortunate .
The other reason has to do with comitology .
We would benefit from additional discussions among party groups on certain details in relation to some of the amendments .
Hence , I would ask you , as rapporteur , to follow my recommendation for postponement .
( The vote was postponed until the following day )
Just to repeat what my colleague , Poul Nielson , stated yesterday , the Commission 's position on the amendments is as follows .
( Parliament approved the common position ( as amended ) )
Amendment No 6 :
Mr President , I just wanted to point out what repercussions a split vote would have .
Normally , it is customary in parliamentary circles to vote on the most in-depth proposal first and then to move on to the less in-depth .
Due to this split vote , we are now voting on the least in-depth first and are working our way up to the most in-depth .
( Parliament approved the common position ( as amended ) )
( Parliament approved the common position ( as amended ) )
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE- Recommendation for second reading of the Fernndez Martn report ( A5-0048 / 2000 )
Mr President , I voted in favour of the common-sense considerations on the ecological disaster which threatens our planet if current developments continue .
These concerns are , however , drowned out in a hotchpotch of irresolute declarations .
Neither the Brussels Commission nor the European Parliament have any desire to act or even clearly name the parties responsible for these disastrous ecological developments .
.
( FR ) The text of the report before us today fulfils the need to conserve tropical forests .
The European Union and its Member States in fact have some responsibility for the conservation of an ecosystem which is essential to the environmental balance of the entire planet .
This responsibility is a historical one , primarily , and is related to the commitments made by Member States to the countries where the bulk of the tropical forest is located .
These historic links and expert knowledge must be made to serve the conservation of this ecosystem .
Our responsibility also stems from our status as consumers : many consumer products in Europe come from these regions and generally have an adverse impact on the forest .
Finally , the European Union actually includes large areas of tropical forest within the territory of its Member States , particularly France .
The department of French Guyana , in particular , is almost entirely covered by this type of vegetation .
In particular , the important thing is to enable real development in these areas , while respecting the culture and traditions of the inhabitants , without setting them in stone in a purely passive ecological conservation mode .
The European Union can make a contribution in this field if it can manage to coordinate efforts and know-how without seeking to control or foist a single strategy on Member States .
We have therefore backed the amendments of the PPE-DE , which support the flexibility necessary for the whole system .
Recommendation for second reading of the Bouwman report ( A5-0043 / 2000 )
In the jungle of maritime transport , such behaviour is , unfortunately , frequently encountered .
It helps to make refuse sites of our seas and beaches , and to jeopardise the ecological balance of the marine environment .
We can only applaud the proposed European directive which would make it possible to apply these principles .
At the same time , however , we wish to ask the important question , which is : what is to become of the inspections ?
The proposal envisages that vessels docking in a Community port may leave again only on presentation of certificates proving that the vessel ' s waste and cargo residues have indeed been disposed of in the appropriate installations .
But what about vessels from outside the Community ?
Will they also be asked for certificates ?
And how will vessels that pass through our waters without docking into port be inspected ?
We think that , to begin with , access to Member State ports should be banned for vessels which do not present such certificates , even if they are from outside the Community .
Furthermore , the Member States , who , under the directive , are to make the commitment to step up in-port inspections , must also undertake to intensify their systems for inspections at sea .
We know only too well the pressure of competition in maritime transport .
There is no point in adopting conventions or directives if they are subsequently to remain dead letters for lack of inspection resources .
Let me remind you that the proposed directive which we are discussing today is intended to improve the availability and the use of port waste-disposal facilities for operational waste and cargo residues .
It is totally in keeping with the 73 / 78 Marpol Convention ( Prevention of Pollution from Ships ) , while concentrating more particularly on the waste-disposal facilities in ports .
It forms part of the overall Community strategy for waste management and requires all ports to provide appropriate waste-disposal facilities , adequate for the needs of vessels .
Today we face maritime pollution problems , which we must tackle head-on by adopting bold measures .
The fact is , as the rapporteur points out , that regulations already exist , but they are not observed .
The system generally applied is the one governed by the ' polluter pays ' principle , a principle which is outstanding in terms of its inefficiency !
This is why we need to find an alternative .
Such an alternative is offered to us in an amendment which I supported .
The amendment seeks to establish a system of charges which all vessels would have to pay systematically each time they dock in a port , whether or not they make use of the waste disposal facilities .
These charges would be used to finance the relevant installations up to 90 % .
This system would inevitably encourage vessels to dispose of their operational waste and cargo residues in port rather than degassing at sea , a deplorable practice which is commonplace nowadays .
Everyone knows that some vessels even took advantage of the pollution caused by the wreck of the Erika to discharge their waste at sea .
This is absolutely scandalous and intolerable .
There are , however , examples of good practice , because the countries around the Baltic Sea have already been operating in this way since 1998 .
I am well aware of the fact that this would cause upheaval in the organisation of the ports of many Member States and would entail additional costs for vessels .
This system seems a fair one to me , and I therefore voted in favour of it .
- ( FR ) This proposed directive is most welcome within the European Union .
It forms part of the overall Community strategy for the reduction of marine pollution and for waste management and requires all Union ports , including yachting marinas , to provide appropriate waste-disposal facilities suited to the requirements of vessels .
International regulations were already in existence , since the Marpol Convention imposes binding international regulations upon all vessels , according to which all discharges at sea are prohibited .
The real problem , however , is the application and observance of these standards !
The fine ' polluter pays ' principle , so dear to many Member States , including my own , is far from being complied with !
The Erika disaster is testimony to this unfortunate state of affairs , as are the thirty-nine instances of degassing which went unpunished in the space of a single week !
We feel that this is the only realistic and fair way to prevent the illegal dumping of waste at sea .
Moreover , we wish to set the level for mandatory inspection at 25 % of all vessels .
On the eve of the French Presidency of the European Union , this is the position which the French Socialists are preparing to champion .
All I can do is urge this House to do as much .
- ( FR ) It is not possible to ignore , today , the fortuitous coincidence of the second reading of this proposed directive against maritime pollution with the topical news of the tragic wreck of the Erika .
Admittedly , this text does not discuss accidental pollution , but we know full well that the implications of illegal degassing at sea are no less serious , even if it is a more insidious phenomenon .
In the last week of February , 39 instances of illegal degassing were identified in the vicinity of the wreck of the Erika alone .
Such practices are intolerable , but they are difficult to monitor , particularly at night or in foggy weather .
Subject to this condition , then , what this directive proposes is Europe ' s initial model response to the legitimate feeling aroused due to the pollution caused by the wreck of the Erika .
To some extent , it marks the official acknowledgement and establishment of a European maritime area subject to shared regulations .
For all these reasons the UEN Group , recalling its agreement with the Council ' s common position , is now opposing the text of this report which has twisted the principles of the common position .
Recommendation for second reading of the Piecyk report ( A5-0040 / 2000 )
- ( FR ) The European Parliament has today expressed its opinion of the proposed directive on the technical roadside inspection of the roadworthiness of commercial vehicles .
It is indeed essential to improve the level of safety and to mitigate the environmental impact of these vehicles , the volume of which is constantly increasing .
Setting up random mandatory roadside inspections in order to check their state of repair throughout the year is a pertinent idea , provided that it can be implemented effectively .
It is also important , as a matter of urgency , to consider having recourse to alternative means of transport for goods ( waterways , railways , etc . ) and to consider developing clean vehicles .
These are the reasons why , ladies and gentlemen , I supported the proposed directive on the technical roadside inspection of commercial vehicles today .
( The sitting was suspended at 12.35 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m. )
EU Charter of Fundamental Rights
The next item is the report ( A5-0064 / 2000 ) by Mr Duff and Mr Voggenhuber , on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs , on the drafting of a European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights .
Madam President , the committee proposes to place a Charter of Fundamental Rights at the centre of the Union system , with mandatory effect upon the European Union , its institutions and the agencies .
We do this because there is a great concentration of power at the centre of the Union and it is clearly necessary for the citizen to be protected from abuse of that power .
This resolution mandates the European parliamentary delegation inside the Convention .
The Convention has already started the process of drafting the Charter upon the principal lines that we propose and upon the presumption that the final result will be binding .
A strong vote for this resolution will assist the Convention to complete its task and set criteria for this Parliament ' s final appraisal of the results .
We should avoid becoming obsessed with the question of subsidiarity .
The drafting of the Charter will certainly be informed by the application of that principle , but it is crucial that the Charter reflects modern European society with all its pluralism and with all its diversity .
The effect of the Charter will be steady and gradual rather than sudden and revolutionary .
There is also a controversy over the relationship between the new European Union Charter and the existing European Convention of Human Rights .
We are proposing that the Union should itself sign up to the ECHR so that those rights inscribed in the existing Convention would form the solid core of the Charter .
Madame President , our purposes are to write a charter that is so good that Member States will find it shameful to refuse to accept it within the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice .
I strongly commend the resolution .
.
What I mean to say is that I hope that the damaging amendments made by those who see in the drafting of the Charter of Fundamental Rights an attack on democracy , no less , will be rejected .
What is there to fear in a Charter of Fundamental Rights ?
The European Union means the peaceful , supportive coexistence of different peoples and cultures , based on its tradition of respect for the rights of individuals .
There will have to be acknowledgement of the political rights of citizens and the human rights of every individual person . Fundamental rights will have to be defined in the face of fresh hazards .
A catalogue of fundamental rights which are recognised as binding by the European institutions also sets out the duty of the citizens to respect them .
The site of clashes between opposing armies throughout the whole of the first half of the century , Europe is now on the way to becoming a guarantee of peace and freedom from fear and want .
This is how we must see the Charter of Fundamental Rights .
There is no reason for anyone to be afraid when the prevalence of rights over force is enshrined in the law .
Madam President , Europe is founded upon fundamental rights .
So is the American Constitution , namely upon our fundamental European rights and the ideas of John Locke and the French Revolution .
American citizens can demand our European rights in their own courts , something which has provided them with empowerment , self-assurance and a pride in themselves .
Fundamental rights can create identity and citizenship .
The assets we have as Europeans in the form of cultural differences are easier to maintain and to accept if citizens know that they can claim their rights throughout the Union .
Quite simply , freedom of movement demands a basis of guaranteed , fundamental rights .
Enlargement of the Union without guaranteed rights could even turn into a fiasco and delay our economic development .
A binding Charter is an indispensable requirement and a necessary part of a much-needed constitution .
I want to warn against joining the Council of Europe ' s convention , especially if this step were not to be combined with a binding Charter .
These complications ought to be studied more closely .
The Charter should be easy to communicate to citizens and be clear to them .
It should not be divided into two or contain a whole lot of references .
The Charter must be binding and embrace the European institutions .
It cannot be fair for citizens to be left without protection against abuses by institutions resembling police forces , such as OLAF and Europol .
This project will give rise to more powerful European individuals .
Madam President , as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs , I will mainly focus on the issue of social fundamental rights .
Social fundamental rights form part and parcel of traditional fundamental rights .
For example , what use is the right to freedom of expression to someone who , owing to poverty and unemployment , suffers complete social exclusion ?
There are social fundamental rights which , by their very nature , are identical to and , as such , simply form part of , the traditional civil freedom rights .
There is , for example , the right of organisation and association which can be extended to the right of free negotiations on working conditions and the right of conducting collective action .
These rights should therefore be included in the first part of the charter .
In the case of other social fundamental rights , there should be a link between the way fundamental rights are worded and the effects thereof on the individual .
These fundamental rights are thus often described as instruction standards which are implemented by authorities in social legislation .
These are , however , no less essential to the charter as basic elements .
Quite often , this category of fundamental rights keenly shows up the misconceptions people have as to this charter ' s significance at European level .
This is not the case at all .
No more so , in actual fact , than is the guarantee of freedom of expression or a fair hearing .
The purpose of the charter is to incorporate these fundamental rights in the European institutions and European policy .
This is , in fact , a reaction to a second common misconception .
It is not the case that the charter would only contain rights for which the European Union would be the first authorised port of call .
Even where the Union has no authority at all , policy measures which may be taken by or on behalf of the European Union can still infringe fundamental rights .
Accordingly , fundamental rights which cannot be guaranteed at EU level but can be violated by the Union , belong in the charter .
I would also like to comment on international treaties with regard to social fundamental rights .
The opinion of the Social Committee lists a few of these treaties : the Council of Europe ' s European social charter and the ILO ' s and UN ' s core Convention .
Another amendment , regarding a more far-reaching alternative , Amendment No 23 , stipulates that the ECHR , as well these social international standards should be acceded to .
Madam President , I would like , above all , to congratulate all the rapporteurs on the quality of their work .
They have successfully stated the importance of this matter for the European Parliament , Europe and its citizens .
The area of competence of the Committee on Petitions justifies its interest in the framing of the charter .
The large numbers of petitions which it receives make it possible to assess the citizens ' perception of the Union and the rights they expect it to protect .
The opinion of the Committee on Petitions is intended to bring to light the aspirations expressed by the Europeans who refer their cases to Parliament in matters of non-observance of rights granted by the European Union .
So our opinion stresses two key points which the rapporteurs , moreover , seem to share .
Firstly , the necessary visibility of the charter as a point of reference for the citizens .
This necessitates clear and concise drafting within a single , comprehensible text .
Secondly , the binding force of this charter , which is achieved when it is possible to defend the recognised rights in the law court .
The natural outcome of this determination is the inclusion of the future charter among the Treaties .
In conclusion , let me say that it is necessary to make a qualitative leap in the protection of fundamental rights .
This report must be a unanimous message from Parliament to ensure that the Council and the Convention respond to the expectations of petitioners .
Madam President , no doubt the Council would like to hear the opinion of the political Groups , which seems to me to be very healthy .
Madam President , we are holding this debate at exactly the right time .
The convention which is drafting the Charter on Fundamental Rights has begun its work and I believe that we are already doing so at cruise speed .
We are dealing with the content involving civil and political rights , and then we will deal with citizenship rights and economic and social rights .
The representative of the Committee on Petitions is right to point out that the citizens often ask us what this Charter of Fundamental Rights is for .
Fundamental rights are recognised in our constitutions .
The Member States of the European Union respect fundamental rights .
There is a Rome Convention , upheld by the Court in Strasbourg , which is the ultimate guarantee in the event of a violation .
So what is this Charter for ?
I believe that Parliament should send a very clear message : the Charter of Fundamental Rights is a supplement to these rights guaranteed in the constitutions .
Being European has an added positive effect .
By means of this Charter we intend to bind the European institutions to a bill of fundamental rights and to bind the Member States to those same rights in their transposition and application of Community law .
Being European is a positive thing . It adds to what we already have as national citizens .
The report which we are debating today and voting on tomorrow also seems to explain very clearly what the political objectives of this Parliament are .
We do not wish the Charter to be a mere declaration .
We do not believe that a declaration is sufficient .
We want the Charter to be incorporated into the Treaties precisely because we want the citizens to have more rights and guarantees .
Whether or not the Charter is incorporated into the Treaty clearly depends on the work which the convention is able to carry out .
It will depend on whether the work is useful and can be incorporated into the Treaties .
However , it seems to me essential that Parliament bears this objective in mind with regard to the drawing up of the Charter .
It is also important to state , as this report does , that absolutely no harm will be done to the protection of fundamental rights as laid down in existing provisions .
There will be no double use of the Convention of Strasbourg . We should make this very clear .
I repeat that what we want is to provide the European citizens with a supplementary guarantee when it comes to the application of Community law .
I believe that , by affirming the indivisibility of fundamental rights , as this resolution does , or affirming their innovative nature , we are taking positive steps towards an improvement in the living conditions of the European citizens .
Madam President , I would like to end by whole-heartedly congratulating both the rapporteurs and the draftsmen of opinions .
I therefore hope , Madam President , that tomorrow ' s vote will support the rapporteurs ' good work with a massive vote in favour of this report .
This is the background against which we are working .
A European Union charter : this clearly means that the charter is addressed to each and every one of our fellow citizens , admittedly , but also to persons resident in or visiting the Union .
That is important to note .
The charter must contribute to this .
It is intended , rather , to say what Parliament expects of the convention .
To this end , I should like to stress two points .
In the first place , what do we expect to obtain from this exercise ?
We want more than this .
It is in this spirit that we are working within the convention , both in terms of the timetable and the form .
My second point is to do with its content .
Our resolution does not say much with regard to content , but Parliament has already had , on at least three occasions , the opportunity to state what it expected from a charter on fundamental rights .
Let me state here the extent of the difficulty of the mandate given us at Cologne , acknowledging social rights which would be nothing more than goals .
Finally , I think that the European Parliament will be on the right track for the charter to be ready , in terms of both content and timetable , to be integrated during the French Presidency .
Madam President , the need for a binding charter is more a political than a legal issue , but this does not detract from its significance .
Fundamental rights are of secondary importance in treaties these days .
If they are included at all , this is done so in a completely chaotic format .
This is unacceptable , certainly if Europe professes to be a Community of values .
Therefore the charter must guarantee the citizen protection against the breaches of increasingly widening supra-national legislation .
The ECHR should apply as a minimum standard with specific European Union rights added to it .
Needless to say , we need to do everything possible to leave national constitutions intact as much as possible but it cannot be ruled out that it will affect these constitutions .
After all , the charter must be able to form the basis for new fundamental rights if so necessitated by social developments .
Finally , Madam President , it is essential for the European Union to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights , for Strasbourg must become stronger , not weaker .
Ladies and gentlemen , the Charter of Fundamental Rights must be an essential stage in the construction of Europe .
We must provide ourselves with the means to make it the founding element of European identity , allowing Europe to make the qualitative leap it needs in order to feel that it really does exist .
The future charter must be included among the Treaties and this must be achieved on the occasion of the next IGC , probably the last with the current fifteen countries .
France , the self-proclaimed home of human rights , must absolutely take advantage of its presidency during the second half of 2000 in order to table this amendment of the Treaties .
This is a formal request which we are making to the French Government .
There are , however , two points that I would like to mention here .
Firstly , I should like to stress the need for the charter to develop the concept of European citizenship due to residence .
More than ever , it is essential to avoid the coexistence in Europe of distinct classes of people enjoying distinct rights .
This charter must make every effort to develop our definition of European citizenship based on the idea of residence .
The rights that we are defining , if they are to be fundamental , must be applicable to everyone .
Secondly , I should like to stress the urgent need to include effective protection for personal data held on computer within the scope of the charter .
Last month , the European Parliament in fact adopted an amendment asking for a Committee on Information Technology and European Liberties to be set up .
Well , this cannot truly exist unless it is based on a solid legal standard .
The charter must therefore ensure that it defines the limits of the content of files , the means permitted for data retrieval , and access methods .
This is a major issue for the guaranteeing of fundamental freedoms in the twenty-first century .
So , for the time being , what I am about to say applies only to the Duff / Voggenhuber report .
There are three reasons for our claiming that the charter , as envisaged , would curtail the rights of citizens .
Firstly , on the pretext of defending citizens better , it would distance them from the place where their rights are defined .
It would weaken the control that they currently have over it .
Next , the charter would provide a new pretext for the frenzied standardisation of citizens ' rights in Europe .
Indeed I am astounded that governments are prepared to allow this to happen .
Here we are at the heart of what we have called the process of reducing rights .
It is perfectly feasible to imagine , as of the end of the year , candidate countries signing up to this charter in order to demonstrate their inclusion in the circle of European values .
If so , adhesion to the charter could be shared by both existing members and future members .
Every country must continue to be able to choose its regulations freely in accordance with its own culture and development .
We would like the Intergovernmental Conference , which is just starting , to keep the essential principle of respect for national democracies continually in mind .
Now then , the European Union does , in effect , seem to be a little behind , but we can make up time by using this vessel .
I am referring to it as a vessel because it is obviously still only a framework . We do not , as yet , know what we will put inside it .
The report does , of course , contain some of the main points , but we will have to decide upon the definitive text later on .
This Charter is important because , although we do have other conventions and treaties , human rights are always under threat , even within the Union .
The right of citizens to vote for whomsoever they choose should be respected indiscriminately for all people at all times , without sabotaging the governments and countries which emerge as a result of these elections .
In our opinion , however , we should be moving towards a Europe of peoples , peoples whose identity is not necessarily defined according to the present form of the Member States .
In particular , certain rules of some of the penal codes should be altered , such as article 141 of the Italian Penal Code , which goes so far as to punish acts of secession with life imprisonment .
Madam President , as the low turnout during the most recent elections has shown , " Europe " as a concept does not mean a great deal to its citizens .
We cannot change this by giving citizens a Charter of Fundamental Rights .
Citizens need to see that the European institutions are actually acting in their interests and are not just out to increasing their own power .
If this happens , confidence among people will grow more than could ever be achieved by many a fine declaration or charter .
We do not share the presumption that a comprehensive charter can be drafted which comprises all current fundamental rights .
Such a document cannot be drafted , not now or in future , and this ambition is certainly not a task of the European Union .
What we should aim for within the Union is cooperation based on respect for the separate identities of peoples and states .
Fundamental rights must be secured where they can be protected as effectively as possible and where they can be embedded in the social fabric , that is to say within the Member States .
It is also vital that the ECHR ' s external supervisory role in the protection of fundamental rights remains intact . Equally , the authority of the Court in Strasbourg over this whole procedure should remain unaffected .
A legally binding charter will inevitably affect fundamental rights provisions in Member States and will undermine the role and the authority of the ECHR and the Court in Strasbourg .
If a charter were to be drafted nonetheless , we would strongly urge that this only apply to the institutions of the Union .
It should only include articles which can give a meaningful message to these European institutions .
Vague instruction standards or rights in policy areas , where the Union has no authority , must be omitted .
Finally , fundamental rights are based on human dignity .
The true value of human life , however , will never be fully understood if we lose sight of God , the Creator of all things , including man .
Mr President , dismayed as I am by the fact that 14 Member States have prejudged Austria , I regard the proposed Charter of Fundamental Rights as an opportunity to bring the European Union closer to the people .
I therefore welcome it .
In drawing up this Charter , the Union wishes to demonstrate its respect for the rights of the people and to show that it cares about the welfare of the individual .
Likewise , the impression has been created that 14 Member States have failed to play by the rules they themselves adopted , and have violated their obligations towards solidarity .
The decision taken by the 14 has done great damage to the perception that the citizens of the European Union have of Europe .
And I believe it is very doubtful indeed as to whether this damage can be made good by a Charter of Fundamental Rights .
Mr President , for years now , the European Parliament and our group have been asking for a proper description of fundamental rights of the European citizens in the European treaties .
The request was made at the time of the Treaty of Maastricht and the Treaty of Amsterdam .
In this connection , I would also remind you of the report which I had the privilege of writing in conjunction with Mrs Dury in preparation for the Treaty of Amsterdam .
This question was raised in that document too .
In fact , it was in this document that we achieved our first successes , for our anti-discrimination clause was used in the Treaty of Amsterdam virtually verbatim .
Later on , at the Cologne Summit , Parliament ' s wider request was also honoured .
A meeting was proposed for the purpose of producing a Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European citizen .
The question which concerns us today , more than anything is : what should this charter contain and what legal force should it have ?
We should not produce empty shells ; our citizens would see through them straight away anyway .
As far as the content is concerned , the charter must tie in with the existing conventions , such as the Council of Europe ' s European Convention for the protection of human rights .
In fact , in my opinion , the Union should sign up to that Convention without delay .
It should not duplicate what is already there .
New threats , in particular , will need to be anticipated , such as in the field of information and biotechnology , and in the protection of the environment , of which man forms part .
I will probably submit a text on this matter myself .
Mr President , I would just like to say a few words on the question of the incorporation of the Charter into the Treaties .
The governments , and , on their behalf , the Council of Cologne , left the question open .
They left a question mark over whether and how to incorporate the Charter into the Treaties .
We feel that the Intergovernmental Conference is our opportunity to resolve this question , and this opportunity must not be passed up .
There are , so to speak , two parallel operations .
It is the responsibility of the Convention to prepare the draft Charter in time for the Intergovernmental Conference to be able to decide whether to incorporate it into the Treaties .
In this regard , I would like to warn the representative of the Council , the Portuguese Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , that the Intergovernmental Conference should already be starting to prepare for this eventuality .
If the Charter is ready in time , the Intergovernmental Conference will have to define the procedures for its incorporation into the Treaty .
As we are all aware , from the European Parliament ' s perspective , this should represent a step towards the constitutionalisation of the Union .
I am quite aware that the term ' constitutionalisation ' has come to be viewed with some suspicion recently , and that people are afraid to use it , or at least , prefer to avoid using it .
From time to time I find myself in difficulties , because the parliamentary committee of which I am Chairman has changed its name from the ' Committee on Institutional Affairs ' to the ' Committee on Constitutional Affairs ' .
And yet I feel that this is the right way for us to go and that it does not in any way mean promoting that concept we all fear of a European superstate .
Nothing can undermine the value of the national constitutions , in the same way that , according to the Treaties , European citizenship does not replace national citizenship , but incorporates it .
Ladies and gentlemen , human rights are a constitutional issue .
Mr President , I should like to express my substantial agreement with the point just made by Mr Napolitano .
It is , when you think of it , odd to suppose that great institutions of this kind could be thought capable of existing without some constitution .
Manifestly we do exist and therefore manifestly we already have some kind of a constitution .
The question is : do we have an adequate constitution and what kind of constitution do we want ?
To say we need a constitution is not to say that the European Union should have the constitution of a state , for the Union is not a state and is not about to become one .
We all therefore agree that there should be proper recognition of rights within the Union and that this should be binding on the organs and institutions of the Union .
The EU organs and institutions can exercise far too much power to permit them that power without the proper control which a Charter of Rights would imply .
There is however one risk .
One of the great success stories of Europe is the way in which the European Court of Justice , especially when other institutions were blocked , succeeded in building the concept of Europe as a Community under the law .
If we create a Charter of Rights that overloads the Court of Justice , that has everybody beating a path every week to Luxembourg , we will destroy the purpose .
We must ensure that the main avenue for protecting rights is in the national courts and in a supervisory jurisdiction as exercised at European level .
If we do not succeed in that , we will fail in everything .
In that way , a loophole has appeared in connection with fundamental rights , and this loophole should , of course , be closed .
In our eagerness to make things right , we are , however , in danger of doing a lot of damage .
The EU is faced with a number of choices . Are we to secure our own rights ?
Are we exclusively to look after ourselves and our own ? Or are we to reinforce human rights throughout Europe ?
The EU must not start competing with the existing authorities for resolving disputes , such as the Court of Human Rights here in Strasbourg .
That would , of course , weaken the latter and damage the situation regarding human rights throughout Europe .
In my view , the EU ' s Court of Justice should therefore be kept away from the project concerning fundamental rights .
In that way , the EU would reinforce the existing conventions , and that is something there is a need for .
I would like to join with my colleagues in congratulating the two rapporteurs despite the fact that I do not agree with everything that they have set down and suggested .
At the same time , they have been given an impossible task to try and square a circle that cannot be squared .
In the brief time that I have , I would like to concentrate on one specific point which the previous speaker has mentioned , as indeed have other speakers .
That is the potential conflict which could arise between this Charter and the European Convention on Human Rights .
Over the last 50 years , the European Convention , with the decisions of the Court , has grown and evolved to accommodate new rights , new entitlements and new freedoms that have developed with society .
Also , in case Members do not know it , under a strict legal interpretation any EU legislation supersedes any constitutional provision or any other national legislative provision in any one of the Member States .
Therefore , if this Charter were to be incorporated into the Treaties , it would supersede the European Convention on Human Rights , it would supersede any national constitutional provisions and would also supersede any national legislative provisions .
It is a pretext , when the very title of the proposed charter speaks of the fundamental rights ' of ' the European Union instead of fundamental rights ' within ' the European Union .
Forgetting the people , social democrats hide , shamefaced , behind human rights and furtive liberals turn into social democrats .
But the people take note of these recantations and will , one day , reject them , or indeed the Western world will come to an end .
It certainly is not useful , as has been claimed previously , in terms of improving or strengthening human rights within the construction of Europe .
Is it to be citizenship in the way that we traditionally understand it , with rights which characterise in a specific way the people belonging to a given community ?
Mr President , while I congratulate the rapporteurs on their work I fear that , as the road to hell is paved with good intentions , so it is with this Charter .
The nations of Europe can be proud of their record on human rights ; however , have they needed charters ?
Of course , there are exceptions , exceptions so serious that Europe has a responsibility to do what it can to ensure that the inhumanities and atrocities of the past are never repeated .
But does this Charter add to what we already have ?
Why not a simple declaration of human rights under Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty without the need for a charter for litigation ?
Can fundamental rights properly be protected by a court which is already overstretched and frequently arrives at its judgments long after the events which it is judging ?
Does this Charter simply aim to be an expensive distributor of compensation in the dreadful fullness of time ?
Ensuring fundamental human rights is the best of intentions , but a charter for litigation and bureaucracy is surely another road to another hell .
Mr President , why do we need such a Charter ?
The big question is not whether we need such a Charter but what status it should have .
Some have argued that the Charter should simply gather together in a readable form all the rights that currently exist within the European Union .
This would be a valuable exercise : there is clearly a problem of awareness of people 's rights .
Many citizens do not know the rights that exist today .
A document clearly laying out such rights , and making it clear where and how these rights could be exercised , would be valuable .
But if that was all we were doing in the Convention then we should have left it to a team of academics , who frankly could have done it better than a group of 60 politicians .
So the Charter must fill in any gaps in existing rights , and it must be binding on the institutions of the European Union .
However , it is clear that not all rights will be equal , at least in the way they are implemented .
The rights need to be in two categories .
What is clear , and what unites most people in this Chamber who want such a Charter , is that it must be in the Treaties .
If it is to impact on the citizen it must appear in the Treaties of the European Union .
I hope that this position will be retained in tomorrow ' s sitting , as it will be vitally important if we wish to avoid confusion with the many various schemes in respect of fundamental rights .
I would like to raise the issue of reinforcing the political rights of citizens with the help of the Charter of Fundamental Rights .
In my view , there has not to date been so much discussion on the subject .
Citizens can mainly stand as candidates in elections and vote in another EU country .
But why should we not establish some new institutions and instruments , by means of this Charter , enabling citizens to have a real influence ?
Why can we not look to the future and see that it will be ever more important for our citizens to be able to take part directly in decision-making in other ways too ?
I think it would be natural for this to form part of the Charter and very little has been said about this so far .
During this past century , Europe has experienced two terrible wars , immeasurable tragedies , but , at the same time , it has witnessed unrestrainable civil , cultural and social progress .
The working masses fought , and achieved and consolidated positive results which protected their rights , and which , at the same time , played a decisive role in the development of democracy .
First and foremost , a document such as this cannot fail to include a specific , indisputable reference to the right to work .
It cannot and must not be without this reference .
For this reason , therefore , I ask Parliament to approve the small number of explicit amendments tabled by Mr Kaufmann and myself on this subject .
For this reason , we are against it .
We are not questioning the content of such a charter .
We come from a country whose constitution contains one of the most extensive enumerations of fundamental rights anywhere .
We also belong to a party that was forged in the struggle for democracy , and one of whose greatest concerns has always been the steadfast promotion of human rights .
We do not think that it would be correct , and certainly not appropriate , to impair and disturb the balance of the Treaties at present .
There is a very simple reason why the European Union does not need a Charter of Fundamental Rights : it does not have a fundamental rights problem .
The Europe to which we belong is even , to a certain extent , the cradle of the culture of fundamental rights .
As there is no problem , the charter is not a solution and as the charter will solve nothing , it is therefore a problem in itself .
This is not a plus , but a minus .
The appropriate setting in which to enshrine fundamental rights is the constitutional law of each nation state .
The appropriate setting for achieving international legal harmonisation and solid advances in the international protection of human rights is the agreements and conventions ratified by the Member States in as wide a geographical area as possible .
In other words , the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and , in Europe , the European Convention .
This would ensure that they were clearly incorporated into the acquis communautaire .
That would be a real step forward . This charter is the wrong answer to a problem that does not even exist and is therefore an additional problem which we feel we can do without .
So reads Item B in the motion for a resolution we have before us .
I consider it to be great progress that the European Parliament has specified and established a view of human beings which is deeply rooted in Europe ' s history , culture , popular movements and spiritual traditions .
In our capacity as citizens , we have freedoms and rights , but we also have responsibilities .
I therefore welcome the fact that responsibilities have been incorporated in accordance with my wording in Item E.
I would also remind you of Amendments Nos 24 and 25 which the Group of the European People ' s Party and European Democrats have submitted and which will be voted on tomorrow .
This statement totally conflicts with the UN ' s and the Council of Europe ' s fundamental human rights charters concerning the rights of the family .
Mr President , it is not often that one has cause to simply feel glad about something in the all too ponderous run of things in the European Parliament .
However , the report by Duff and Voggenhuber has given us cause for this today .
I would particularly like to take this opportunity to highlight how doggedly they have pursued their goal .
Duff and Voggenhuber , on the other hand , think of themselves as true European Parliamentarians whose task it is to further the interests of Europe as a whole .
This Charter will only meet the needs of the citizens of Europe under two provisos . Firstly , it must be given substance , and secondly , it must be made binding in law .
However , it is stunningly disappointing to note how the Convention , which has been specifically set up for this purpose , is high on competences but very low in courage .
And so really , this report could also be viewed as an appeal to the Convention that goes like this : ' Dare to do something at long last !
Dare to include innovations in the Charter , particularly those in the sphere of information and biotechnology , but also where equal rights for women and environmental protection are concerned .
The Charter is precisely the instrument we need to give Europe a soul , and it could help create a common identity .
Why is it that EU governments are so quick off the mark when it comes to pushing through economic reforms but so hesitant when it comes to political rights ?
Do you not realise that Europe as we know it will fall apart if we put all our efforts into bringing on the economy and do not do anything to promote political fundamental rights ?
Conscious of my position as an Austrian , I would therefore like to make the following appeal to the national governments : ' wake up , it is in your own interests to give fundamental rights a chance !
With this in mind , I hope the report in question achieves an overwhelming majority in plenary tomorrow .
I should like to say that a Charter of Fundamental Rights is both welcome and essential , provided it does not fall into the following three traps .
The third danger is that it may become a general Charter containing a loose set of average values , a mechanism for subverting the advanced human rights which have been acquired in various countries .
For example , if a particular country has the right to free education , then any general reference to the right to education in a European Union Charter could be the first step towards subverting that right .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , fundamental rights , citizens , freedom and human rights have a long tradition in Europe .
The fact that fundamental rights have come to be guaranteed under constitutional law over the past 200 years is largely down to the impact these universal documents of fundamental rights have had .
It is now the task of twenty-first century Europe to combine the existing fundamental rights in the Member States and those aspects that apply to Europe .
The fundamental rights such as freedom of worship , freedom to meet and form associations , for example , are sacrosanct and inalienable rights to freedom from state intervention .
Applied to Europe this means that a European Charter of Fundamental Rights must protect the citizens of the European Union against the interference and intervention of European institutions in the fundamental rights of the citizens .
Furthermore , our group hopes that a written European catalogue of fundamental rights will put European integration on a firmer legal-ethical footing and help to create greater transparency and clarity for the citizens .
Our group deems it particularly important that the European Charter should neither replace nor infringe Member States ' own provisions on fundamental rights .
There has been heated discussion over the call for the European Union to sign up to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms drawn up by the Council of Europe in 1950 .
The Council of Europe ' s Convention is now 50 years old .
At the same time , however , this means that we must confine ourselves to the traditional fundamental rights and avoid extending the scope to social and economic fundamental rights , which are not legally enforceable at European level .
I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the comprehensive work they have done , and hope that the deliberations of the European Parliament find their way into the Convention ' s discussions on the elaboration of fundamental rights .
Mr President , the rapporteurs Duff and Voggenhuber , as well as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs , have done some sterling work .
The report itself is sound because it conveys the key messages without going so far as to anticipate the work of the fundamental rights convention .
I therefore nurture the hope that tomorrow in plenary sitting , this report will be adopted in the form we in the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights drafted it in .
However there is one point which I would like to be amended .
I have tabled an amendment to this effect on behalf of my group .
It concerns the question , raised repeatedly today , as to whether the European Union should sign up to the European Convention on Human Rights .
This was an important goal in the past .
But that is not the path we want Europe to go down in the future , and nor should it .
With all due respect for the Human Rights Convention , we need more !
We need our own Charter that provides our own answers to the questions raised by the age we live in .
The European Convention on Human Rights does not fulfil this task .
It is not in a position to do so because it came into being in the 50s , when political and social conditions were completely different .
Seen in this light , it is time for all of us to call for constructive work to commence on our own Charter .
We call upon the Convention on Fundamental Rights , the 62 politicians that David Martin mentioned , to take up this task .
Let us support them in this .
In other words , policy should be implemented along the lines of a directive rather than a regulation .
We do it differently and no less effectively .
Mr President , for those countries which have a long tradition of directly , legally binding charters , a development of the kind proposed is not dramatic .
This means that family values in society are falling into the wrong , or at least biased , hands .
The new right is getting hold of them and using them to capture the moral high ground .
That is why the theme is tiresome to so many .
However , I believe that it would be a big mistake for the European Parliament to approve of this sort of trend .
Families are firmly connected with the European notion of society .
Like many others , the Christian Democrats want a society where freedom and responsibility meet halfway .
I see it as a family society because it is difficult to learn about joint responsibility and solidarity if it is not learnt in a small , close-knit community .
Society may be just , but it cannot ever love .
Its bosom is too cold and its arm too short .
Nevertheless , it is this very love that is a requirement for the healthy development of the individual .
And a progressive Charter of Fundamental Rights will be of no use to Europe if the members of its society have no wish to respect them .
Social development with that end in sight still takes place in the family .
There can thus be no people ' s Europe without a family-oriented Europe .
Families need recognition , encouragement , freedom of action and protection from social tyranny just the same as individuals do .
Family rights and protection that have been provided for in legislation elsewhere in this respect should be reproduced in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights .
It is good to remember that Europe has shared a common position throughout its history regarding the importance of supporting and protecting family and marriage .
This is enshrined in all our constitutions as well as the constitutions of those accession countries joining the European Union in enlargement .
I can show you the constitutions of post-communist states in which the family and marriage is protected .
I welcome the reference in our Charter to family life .
Part 1 of Article 9 states : " Everyone shall have the right to found a family " .
Society recognises marriage not on moral grounds but because it recognises on a rational basis the stability it affords society socially and economically as well as securing future generations .
The Union should only step into a primary role where the family is unable to fulfil its duty .
A question that has already been asked here today is what makes us want to join together and to transcend our enormous diversity by creating an entity which will unite us all .
This is the key question as regards European identity , and it goes to the very root of why we are also joined together here , in this great home - the European Union .
Over the decades , and having survived all kinds of traumas and crises , we have established a way of life based on the values of liberty , democracy and respect for the rule of law .
The ascendancy of these ideas and the end of the totalitarian era which marked certain European societies has created a new situation to which we must respond .
In our opinion , this is a question of responsibility and also of consistency .
This is not the case , and that is not the purpose of all this .
The Charter of Fundamental Rights is nevertheless not intended to act as a substitute for the constitutional guarantees that we all enjoy in our own countries .
No , we intend to provide something which will bring added value , a kind of additional guarantee , which would function as an instrument of the new European citizenship .
Here , Mr President , we must overcome certain problems which the debate within the Convention is beginning to run into and which I think it will face even more frequently in the future .
The first issue regards jurisdiction . It concerns the need to guarantee complete compatibility between the two relevant legal systems , which could find themselves in conflict with one another in this process .
This is a real problem and one of which we should all be aware .
We cannot run the risk that when this charter comes into force a new area of legal uncertainty will be created .
We are embarking upon an exercise designed to make our citizens ' rights more transparent - not to ensnare them in a web of legal contradictions that could prove to be a source of confusion .
This also brings us to the issue , which has surfaced once again following Amsterdam , of the Union possibly signing up to the European Convention on Human Rights .
This is a fundamental question .
The third question , and a crucial one , is the body of rights .
How far do we intend to go ?
How far is the Union prepared to go ?
But unless it is binding , will any Charter of Fundamental Rights be anything more than a mere statement of principles , without any real value ?
On this subject , I should like to mention the issue of the Intergovernmental Conference .
It is obvious that the issue of incorporating the Charter of Fundamental Rights is a crucial factor for the whole credibility of the ICG .
Once again , the Commission would like to make four key points quite clear to Parliament .
The truth is that the Commission , as stated in Paragraph 14 of the resolution tabled by the European Parliament , takes the view that the legal force of the charter should be determined by the Nice European Council .
It must be taken by the European Council , when it decides on the legal force of the charter .
The Commission advocated this as long ago as 1979 and did so again in 1990 .
The idea that the European Union itself ought to sign the European Convention is also largely shared by the European Parliament .
I would also like to clearly state a second idea .
There is no inherent contradiction between the Union having a Charter of Fundamental Rights and , at the same time , signing the European Convention on Human Rights .
Furthermore , I recommend that you carefully read the contribution of the observer representing the European Court of Human Rights in the Convention responsible for drafting the Union ' s Charter of Fundamental Rights .
I would like to make two more observations on the list of rights .
The Commission would like to reiterate that it is favourable towards the idea of a charter encompassing both civil and political rights , as well as social rights and rights deriving from European citizenship .
Lastly , I would like to say that in our opinion , the European Charter of Fundamental Rights is not intended to replace either national constitutions or the European Convention on Human Rights .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Vitorino .
That concludes the debate .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
Additional Commission contribution to the IGC
The next item is the Commission communication " Additional Commission contribution to the IGC on institutional reform : qualified majority for taxation and social security aspects of the internal market " .
I am not very sure , given the joint , or parallel , organisation of our work , how I shall be able to do this properly .
I did mention before this House our intention to outline and clarify some aspects of this opinion at a later date .
We had identified five categories of exceptions to the general rule which we approved , according to which , within the Union , decisions would henceforth be taken by qualified majority vote .
We had , however , identified , for institutional reasons , with regard to extremely serious or sensitive issues , five categories of exceptions requiring unanimity .
This was one of them .
We had also excluded decisions incompatible with the objectives of the internal market or which may give rise to distortions of competition .
This is the point we have discussed today in order to complete our opinion .
These proposals concern the methods for decision making in matters of taxation and social security .
Having said that , I should like to clarify three misunderstandings which sometimes arise . Firstly , the Commission is not demanding new jurisdiction for taxation and social security .
Ever since the Treaty of Rome , the Treaties have provided for Community action in both these areas .
Switching from unanimity to qualified majority is not a transfer of jurisdiction .
The Commission is keeping strictly to the areas of jurisdiction which are already available to the European Community .
Let me take VAT as an example. in this matter , we are confronted with an important part of Community legislation which has been developed since the 1970s .
It is only the method of decision making which may change .
This is the first point that I wished to make clear .
The second point I would like to make is that the Commission does not wish to impose the levelling of national tax systems or social security systems .
The matter we wish to deal with is how to maintain what already exists and share it with all the new Member States .
It is a case , then , of introducing qualified majority where we think it necessary , and leaving unanimous decisions where they are preferable .
Finally , the Commission wishes to make it clear that this additional presentation does not encompass its entire programme for years to come in all areas .
It does not include the measures that the Commission may envisage for the future , or the basic proposals that it intends to put forward at some point .
My fellow Commissioners , Mrs Diamantopoulou and Mr Bolkestein , will inform you when the time comes regarding the various aspects of the Commission programme .
I should now like to mention the principles which oriented our approach in the document which you are to receive shortly .
Let me say again , unanimity is to remain the general rule .
The Commission therefore considers it justifiable to retain unanimity in these areas as a basic principle .
We confirm this approach . Moreover , these national choices are generally - let me specify - generally , neutral with regard to the construction of Europe .
This is the first principle .
But this first principle gives rise to a second , which is as follows : qualified majority to enable measures to be adopted which are more directly linked to the proper operation of the internal market .
We know , and you know , that some national legislation in the field of taxation and social security may , by virtue of its content or nature , have repercussions for the operation of the internal market .
The Commission considers that the Community must be able to adopt , by qualified majority , those measures which are most directly linked to the proper operation of the internal market .
That is the second principle .
Finally , my third principle , we must in future select the best instrument to respect subsidiarity .
It may simply be a matter of coordination ; it may be a matter of establishing minimum requirements ; it may also be a matter , at a higher level , of harmonisation .
But this selection of the best instrument must be limited to that which is strictly necessary .
Generally speaking , the end goal of measures for which the transition to qualified majority is suggested would not be to harmonise the national legislative systems systematically , but simply to coordinate them .
This is in any case , ladies and gentlemen , what has been going on for almost forty years in the field of social security .
We also consider it important to introduce it to the field of taxation too .
Still , before answering your questions , I would like briefly to mention the content of the proposals as you will read them .
Regarding direct taxation , we propose the qualified majority in order to coordinate the campaign against fraud and tax evasion and in order to ensure proper handling of situations involving the legislations of several Member States .
For the remainder , unanimity shall remain the general rule .
We further propose to retain unanimity for decisions on tax rates and the points of taxation .
We must avoid penalising them .
Mr President , let me just say one final word to explain the state of mind I have continued to work in , as we had done under President Prodi in adopting our opinion on 26 January .
The Commission undertook to carry out clear , proactive work .
We eliminated any ideological thinking .
We wish to keep to specific facts and tangible proposals in order to avoid approaching matters with slogans or ideologically .
Mr President , firstly I would like to welcome the Commission 's approach in general to the IGC .
The fact that we are getting this rolling presentation of more detailed explanations of issues is very helpful .
Secondly , I agree with the Commission that this is indeed an extremely delicate issue .
Taxation and social security get to what Mrs Thatcher used to call the nooks and crannies of everyday life .
It is something that affects Member States and their people in a very sensitive way and we have to be careful before the Community moves into these fields .
From what I hear , the Commission has got it more or less right and I would like to put a couple of questions for the sake of clarity .
That makes absolute sense .
What I was not clear about was when he talked about other measures where it was necessary to make the single market work .
How will that be defined ?
It sounds fine but how do you define a measure that is essential to make the single market work ?
That is a matter of intense debate .
Similarly , the issue of harmonisation against coordination : one man 's coordination can be another 's harmonisation and we need clear definitions of what is coordination and what is harmonisation if this is to work .
I wish him well in this area because it is an area in which we need a breakthrough .
Thank you , Mr Martin , for your assessment . I understand that it is related to the detailed analysis that you will make of the Commission text .
The text will , as soon as it has been adopted - as is now the case - be made available towards the end of the afternoon .
Just now , ladies and gentlemen , I expressed my concern in this document , and in the discussions we will be having , to avoid ideology , to keep to a precise approach .
So let me repeat that our watchword was to say that qualified majority should be extended to everything that directly affected the operation of the internal market and which might compromise its proper operation in an enlarged Europe .
We have , of course , worked on the three instruments which I mentioned , coordination , minimum requirements and harmonisation , treating harmonisation as the additional stage .
Further to this general answer , with thanks for your remarks , I shall be attentive to your criticisms or your proposals when you have had time to peruse this document .
To quote but one example : the country of origin principle in matters of VAT .
Would it not be possible to start by making adjustments to the current VAT systems , so that harmonisation systems can be implemented more efficiently at European level ?
Or another example : double taxation , which causes so many problems .
My question is this : will the Commission ' s work programme include a schedule for this , or how do you intend to proceed ?
Thank you very much , Commissioner , for your comments .
I do not understand your assertion that there will be no transfer of powers .
If you are increasing qualified majority voting and therefore taking away the national veto , you are effectively transferring powers from the nation state to the European institutions .
Are you aware , Sir , that the leader of the British Conservative Party has said that we have reached the limits of European integration ?
Are you aware of recent public opinion surveys showing that the British people are opposed to the transfer of further powers from the nation state to Brussels , and how will you take those facts into account ?
Commissioner , I should like to pick up on a point which you made in your speech .
You said that wherever we require unanimity , we shall retain unanimity , and wherever qualified majority voting is required , we shall use qualified majority voting .
We all know of course that the European Parliament takes the clear view that qualified majority voting must apply as the rule and unanimity as the exception .
If we forego this practice , then we also forego the subsequent promotion of the European Parliament to colegislator on all future legislative issues requiring a qualified majority .
Mr Rbig , in answering I shall focus on the matter of VAT .
Nonetheless , you have asked me , broadly speaking , whether the great VAT modernisation project might be adopted with your proposals by qualified majority ?
I must answer that it depends what you mean by ' great VAT modernisation project ' .
Jointly with the Member States , we are currently identifying what should go into this package .
A meeting was held on 2 March but , frankly , I think it is rather too early to be able to give you any further details .
But what will happen in a much enlarged Europe , where disparities are even greater than they are at present in social terms and budgetary matters ?
This is why we recommend an extremely thorough , and I might almost say clinical analysis of these matters , in the interests of the internal market .
Finally , I would like to thank Professor Tsatsos for having mentioned the connection between these proposals and the role of the European Parliament .
Since I have been given the opportunity , let me confirm that one of the Commission proposals is to associate codecision directly to all measures decided by qualified majority as soon as legislative measures are involved .
Professor , we shall have further opportunities to state this and to try to convince the other negotiators of this throughout the coming months .
Mr President , Commissioner Barnier , I am extremely pleased that the Commission has produced this initiative .
It is clear that there is a need for harmonisation of taxation policy within the internal market and the currency union .
Those who deny this call the future of the internal market into question .
You talked specifically about VAT but I did not hear you mention two other taxes that have long been the subject of discussion , i.e. tax on interest and company tax .
These are clearly two basic taxes that we are going to have to harmonise in some way .
I do not know if you included this under tax evasion ; it does not feature in your document at any rate .
Could you comment on this ?
Mr President , I have to say that I am most impressed by the principles which the Commissioner has set out .
3 , subparagraph 2 , concerning the cancellation of contracts of employment .
I have difficulty in seeing what the justification is for this on the basis of the three principles which have been laid down and which have been emphasised by the Commission .
In the light of this , may I conclude that the Commissioner does not wish to comply with the Presidency ' s note on these proposals ?
Commissioner , you are proceeding with the utmost caution , and that is an approach which I support .
With reference to the argument of subsidiarity , I should simply like to tell you that , in my opinion , it is also important to put forward the argument of citizenship in fiscal matters .
After fifty years of building Europe , it is unacceptable that the citizens of Europe should not be equal in the eyes of the law simply due to their being classed as resident or non-resident .
The concept of citizenship is common property , on behalf of which we must move beyond failures such as Helsinki .
I have three specific questions that I would like to ask you :
My first question is this : do you anticipate that the instrument you are proposing might be applicable to the integration of financial markets and the requisite tax regulation thereof ?
My second question is : does the instrument that you are proposing in the area of environmental taxation provide for qualified majority voting ?
My third question is : would the instrument you are proposing enable the Council to put an end , by qualified majority decision , to the tax havens which exist within the European Union ?
Thank you , Commissioner , for your statement .
It does strike very much at the heart of what is perceived as the national ability to conduct one 's affairs .
I am thinking in particular of things such as the withholding tax , which it would have been quite unacceptable to have subjected to a QMV regime .
I hope those points will be borne in mind when you look at the practicality of getting the package through .
We are very happy to combat fraud and tax evasion and to improve social security legislation , but there are some points where there will be difficulty in convincing all the Member States to follow .
Commissioner , I have some very simple questions for you , which require just a ' yes ' or ' no ' answer in each case .
Can you guarantee that the Commission will not seek , under any circumstances , to use qualified majority voting to impose the withholding tax ?
Are there any circumstances where the Commission would seek to use qualified majority voting on any of those issues ?
Can you guarantee that the Commission will not use qualified majority voting on any of those issues ?
Mr President , I can imagine that according to some Members , the citizens are sensitive to European intervention in tax and social matters .
I can tell you that in my country , many citizens lie awake at night , worrying about the fact that Europe leaves social and tax matters well alone on account of this unanimity .
This is why I would like to direct two specific questions to the Commissioner .
First of all , citizens who are very badly affected by non-intervention are mainly those who wish to enjoy free movement and , more specifically , cross-border workers .
Dossiers concerning the coordination of social security , expansion into third countries , supplementary social security systems have all been on the Council ' s table for years , untouched .
Could the Commissioner tell me if the present issue is also affected by qualified majority voting ?
I should like to answer a number of you collectively , particularly on what we might term the tax package .
Mr Leinen discussed this , as did Mr Baltas and , just now , Mrs Van Lancker .
Let me make one preliminary remark . The purpose of this speech is not , let me repeat , to foreshadow the conditions for the execution of the Commission ' s work programme .
Obviously , the Monti package is related to the proper operation of the internal market .
This is why Mr Monti , a few months ago , and now my fellow Commissioner , Frits Bolkestein , continue to make it a political priority .
Mrs Thorning-Schmidt and a number of you , including Mrs Van Lancker , mentioned the social matters which are extremely important , particularly with regard to third country nationals .
We do wish to include them as beneficiaries of social policy ( Articles 42 and 137 , which are to be subject to qualified majority voting ) .
In Nice , prior to the great enlargement , I would ask you , please , to see this text as anticipating events .
As we exist right now , we could continue to operate more or less and to live together , but that is not what it is all about .
We wish to ensure that the Community has effective means to support this restructuring at Community level .
We therefore propose that it should be possible to adopt these minimum requirements by qualified majority vote , and not by unanimity , in all the areas I have mentioned .
Finally , I should like to tell Mr Jonckheer that , for all sorts of reasons , I absolutely agree with him on the matter of citizenship .
I am aware that my answers are necessarily incomplete given the time available .
Mr Bolkestein , Mrs Diamantopoulou and myself will have the opportunity to address you again in future .
We wish to initiate this debate , and to fuel and feed it on the basis of these proposals , as I undertook , in order to facilitate to some extent , the difficult negotiations within the Intergovernmental Conference .
But , in the final analysis , as we all know , what we need is the political will .
Question Time ( Commission )
The next item is Question Time ( B5-0201 / 2000 ) .
We will examine questions to the Commission .
First Part
Question No 39 by ( H-0174 / 00 ) :
That position recalled that the fisheries agreement which expired in November 1999 applied to Morocco 's fishing zone which is defined as waters over which Morocco has sovereignty or jurisdiction .
This definition does not in any way affect the status of Western Sahara and its coastal waters .
I would like to start by thanking the Commissioner for his kind answer , although I find it to be completely insufficient .
The letter which I referred to in my question was very unclear as to the European Commission ' s conception of the coastal waters of the Western Sahara .
However , you have expressed it with extreme clarity ? .
There is no doubt that the Kingdom of Morocco is currently occupying the Western Sahara and this territory is currently undergoing a process of self-determination .
However , according to international law , it should be considered that Morocco has control over that territory , although it in no way has sovereignty over it .
If it cannot have sovereignty over the territory , neither can it have sovereignty over its coastal waters .
This would prejudice the future of those waters , given the possibility that the planned referendum on self-determination will support the independence of that territory .
What situation would the Government of the Western Sahara then be in with regard to the waters which it would have the sovereign duty to administrate ?
I agree absolutely that we should reach a fisheries agreement with Morocco which is favourable to the interests of the European Union fishing fleet , in particular the Spanish fishing industry .
But I believe this is not contradictory , on the contrary , with a legitimate interpretation of international law which I ask to be done formally .
Does the Commission commit itself to formally consulting the Secretary-General of the United Nations ?
Yes or no , Commissioner ?
I have many regrets in life and one of them is that I am not a lawyer , so if the honourable gentleman will excuse a scriptural reference , I tip toe on these waters with some nervousness !
But I understand that international law is quite clear and that the question of territorial waters is directly related to the question of the sovereignty of a territory itself .
That is a question which is being considered at the moment in the context of the referendum and of the UN Secretary-General 's initiative .
As I am sure the honourable gentleman knows , we strongly support that initiative and if there is any way that we can assist the UN Secretary-General , then we would certainly want to do so .
That also goes , of course , for his special representative .
As they deal with the same subject , Questions Nos 40 and 113 will be taken together , at the request of the Commission .
Question No 40 by ( H-0241 / 00 ) :
Subject : Landmines In a recent statement in the UN General Assembly the Council Presidency stated that the EU remains the main contributor to de-mining programmes worldwide .
However , people in the field complain about the limited role the EU is playing and the confused nature of EU funding for de-mining .
Could the Commission provide me with a breakdown of the funding provided by the EU for all activities relating to anti-personnel mines ?
How much money goes into mine action programmes and how much into R & D in de-mining technology ?
Could the Commission draft an annual report on its APM policy to eliminate the existing lack of clarity ?
Could the Commission tell me what progress is being made with regard to introducing a regulation on anti-personnel mines , which would provide a legal base for these activities and bring them together within a single transparent framework ?
Question No 113 by ( H-0251 / 00 ) :
Subject : EU action to combat mines Will the wide range of action programmes to combat mines have to be financed solely from budget line B7-661 , which is now more justified than ever ?
What provisions will be taken to ensure that NGOs enjoy effective access to Union funding ?
I hope you will excuse me that in answering the questions together , I take slightly longer .
I am particularly pleased to have the opportunity to reply to Mr van den Bos on anti-personnel mines today .
I will also take this opportunity to respond to Madame Carlotti ' s question .
In doing this , we are responding to and building on the initiative of Parliament to create a specific budget line for mine action .
Anti-personnel mines create appalling casualties in many of the poorest parts of the world .
Over the past eight years , European Community support for mine action has exceeded EUR 180 million .
We have intervened in all corners of the world .
We have supported action by national authorities , international organisations , and not least NGOs .
We have contributed to de-mining and mine destruction as well as to victim assistance and research into new de-mining technology .
But until now , we have not had a coherent overall approach to our mine action .
The funding of mine action from the geographic programmes and their budget lines will continue .
Mine clearance and other forms of mine action are often a preliminary step to any sensible development programme .
Therefore they should form part of national or regional reconstruction and rehabilitation plans .
The new regulation and the special budget line will support and complement the geographic line by providing the overall policy framework and by functioning as a general reserve and a source for funding for international programmes .
The resources available for EU mine actions should remain at least at the same level in real terms as we have achieved over the last few years , that is about EUR 30 million a year .
Regular programmes for mine clearance and destruction under our new policy should principally benefit countries which have subscribed to the Ottawa Convention .
Finally , the European Union is recognised as one of the leading contributors to mine action within the international community .
The entry into force of the Ottawa Convention a year ago provided us with a forceful new instrument and a set of ambitious targets for the years to come .
We have signed up to the objective of eliminating all landmines worldwide in ten to fifteen years .
That will require determination , consistency and perseverance .
With the funding and coordinating mechanism under the new regulation and communication , we are well placed to take on that challenge .
I would like to thank the Commissioner for his reply which I find extremely satisfactory .
It indicates the Commission ' s high level of commitment to this issue .
I only have one additional question , which is whether the Commissioner would submit to us an annual report on the Commission ' s actions in this field ?
- The new regulation provides for the Commission to submit an annual report to the Council and to Parliament on its actions the previous year by 30 April of the following year .
Thank you very much , Commissioner , for this comprehensive answer .
Might I ask you to clarify one point ?
If the justification for budget line B7-661 were increased , what measures could be taken in order guarantee effective NGO access to Union funding ?
One thing that we obviously need to do is to advertise very clearly what is available .
We have taken a website that will enable us , I hope , to inform the NGO community and others more clearly about what is available .
We intend establishing a multi-annual work plan .
We will refer to that on our website .
I hope , therefore , that NGOs will feel involved in what we are doing .
We depend a great deal on their active support and understanding .
But overall I can assure the honourable Member that we will be involving NGOs as much as possible .
They have a great deal to contribute to this important work .
Question No 41 by ( H-0212 / 00 ) :
Subject : ' Dialogue on Europe ' initiative The President of the Commission intends to launch this initiative on 8 March 2000 .
The Commission 's communication on the subject implies that the intention is to explain the consequences of the IGC 2000 to the public opinion of the Fifteen .
Since this initiative falls under the PRINCE programme for providing information to the citizens of Europe , does the Commission intend to include the Charter of Fundamental Rights as one of the main themes of this initiative ?
The Commission considers that all the institutional matters liable to have a connection with the work of the Intergovernmental Conference should in fact come within the scope of the debate which has been initiated .
This also , therefore , applies , and this is my answer to your question , to the matter of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of citizens .
This dialogue on Europe will be developed with all national and regional institutions , but also with opinion formers , the media and organisations in civil society .
This is completely justified given the actual purpose of the Charter of Fundamental Rights .
Mr President , I would first of all like to thank the Commission for its reply .
I am satisfied with it for two reasons .
Firstly , it links the Charter of Fundamental Rights with the Intergovernmental Conference , which is the political objective of this Parliament expressed in the report by Messrs Duff and Voggenhuber .
Secondly , because it is going to include it within this campaign .
Furthermore , I was very pleased with Mr Lamy ' s reply - which was inevitable , given that Mr Lamy knows these issues very well - concerning the decentralisation of the information campaign .
As on other occasions , such as the Intergovernmental Conference of 1996 , this Parliament must offer the Commission its support in order to monitor information activities .
I am pleased to hear the Commissioner 's comments on the Charter .
I would like to push him to give details about the nature of the campaign .
Last Wednesday we had a very successful launch of the European information campaign involving Commissioners and Members of the European Parliament .
I would like the Commissioner to reassure me that , when the campaign is decentralised , information offices in the Member States will involve Members of the European Parliament in the information campaign as a matter of course .
After all , it is the MEPs who are supposed to represent the citizens .
We are at least as well-placed as the Commission to engage in that dialogue with the citizens .
The answer to Mr Martin ' s question is ' yes ' , and I can include Mr Barnier and Mr Vitorino in that .
The Commission does intend to involve Members of the European Parliament at grass roots level in the Dialogue on Europe initiative .
Indeed , no later than this evening there is to be a coordination meeting between the Commission administration and that of the European Parliament in order to determine the practicalities of the approach to be adopted .
The simple answer , Mr President , is ' yes ' .
Question No 42 by ( H-0215 / 00 ) :
Mr Fischler will reply on behalf of Mrs Wallstrm .
I should like to thank the Commissioner for his answer .
Of course , the European Parliament appreciates the Commission ' s efforts to promote Community policy on environmental protection and , especially , its efforts to incorporate the environmental dimension into all policies , i.e. mainstreaming .
As we all know , the bombings destroyed bridges , oil refineries and chemical factories , which damaged the ecology of all the areas along the Danube .
I would like to hear your views on the matter , Commissioner : do you intend to take action for the economic , ecological and cultural restoration of the areas which were damaged ?
She also reached agreement with the competent ministers of these countries on setting up a task force to handle these issues .
The key issues to be addressed by this international task force have already been established .
As far as the financial aspect is concerned , the Commission is in the process of looking into which funds could be made available for an emergency aid package .
Commissioner , I am convinced that the Committee on Budgets will be delighted to read this information as soon as they are provided with it .
Commissioner , thank you for your answer .
And not just these reactors , but also the reactors in Slovakia and Lithuania .
Of course , I appreciate that there are certain difficulties involved in closing them down immediately , but is that the earliest possible date ?
Mr Trakatellis , opinion is extremely divided as to how unsafe the reactors 3 and 4 actually are .
Now it is up to me who I believe .
I believe the reports that were compiled at the outset , and I still maintain that we must abide by the principle of risk avoidance in this case .
On the other hand , I must ask you to bear in mind that the decision on whether to go for the nuclear option in energy production is the sovereign right of each and every State .
The Commission is no more able than Parliament or the Council to forbid any country in the world from using nuclear energy , or to force them to shut down reactors without delay .
It must be left to the country concerned to determine how to implement the objectives set as quickly as possible .
All I can say is that this is what proved to be attainable during negotiations , which I headed myself part of the time .
If we had tried to achieve more , then we would have failed to reach agreement and ended up with no shutdown dates whatsoever .
As a matter of fact , I believe we achieved a particularly positive outcome in Bulgaria , in view of the extremely difficult situation there .
I would like to point something else out to you , somewhat circuitously , but you will soon see why .
As far as the shutdown dates for blocks 3and 4 are concerned , it says in the text that this will be decided on in 2002 .
So that is quite some way off the shutdown date we had mind .
As the Commission understands it , this shutdown will take place by latest - and I repeat , latest - 2006 , which is also stated in the text .
The fact that the Bulgarian government signed this text without questioning this , has a certain political significance .
That is all I can say on the matter , but I think you know what I am driving at .
Questions to Mr Lamy
Question No 44 by ( H-0206 / 00 ) :
As LLDCs account for less than 0.5 % of world trade , will he reconsider his reservations in this respect ?
What timetable does he propose for the implementation of this measure ?
The initiative was drawn up immediately after the Singapore Conference , when the Council invited the Commission to make proposals in favour of the least developed countries , both for immediate action and additional medium-term action .
In its conclusions dating from June 1997 , the Council made reference to the expression : ' essentially all the products of LLDCs ' .
The difference between all and essentially all products affects , as we well know , a number of specific agricultural products .
This is the mandate which the Commission was given and therefore , naturally , we must respect it .
My own services are currently preparing proposals which will be presented to the Council when they are completely ready .
I am thinking particularly of the markets of the developed countries : the United States , Japan , Australia , and New Zealand .
I am also thinking , possibly , of a number of emerging countries , already industrialised .
At the moment I am making great efforts to move forward this initiative which we have included in the rescue package which we are working on in Geneva .
That is the state of play at the present time .
It is therefore necessary to look at what is termed ' capacity building ' , i.e. technical assistance measures to be implemented in order to ensure that this access is tangible and not just theoretical .
This is the response I wished to give to this question which looks to the future .
I am grateful to Commissioner Lamy for his answer , as far as it went .
But my main concern in asking the question - and I do not feel this has been fully dealt with - is over this matter of exactly what " essential products " means .
What more specific comments can he make about which sectors and which products will be concerned , and for how long ?
That is the sort of message we want to hear .
We do not want to wait for five years ; let others follow our example " .
There are two parts to my answer to this question .
Firstly , I think I gave a clear answer to your question when I said that the difference between ' all ' and ' essentially all ' affected only a really very limited number of agricultural products .
I am thinking particularly of sugar which can effectively constitute an additional resource for several of these countries .
You know that the Community , and in this case the Commission , has considered the idea of a complete review of conditions in the sugar industry .
These are matters to which we shall no doubt return .
But that is something that only we need concern ourselves with .
Question No 45 by ( H-0208 / 00 ) :
Will the Commission agree to submit the agreement on China 's WTO accession to this Parliament 's assent even if the IGC has not yet been concluded ?
Mr Clegg , the Commission acknowledges that the agreement on China ' s accession to the WTO is an extremely important decision .
It is , moreover , exactly the type of agreement which would be submitted to Parliament ' s assent if the Commission ' s proposals to the Intergovernmental Conference were accepted by the Member States .
This would mean that Parliament should have the opportunity , pursuant to Article 300 , to declare its opinion on this agreement .
Obviously , in the normal course of things , it is up to the Council to consult the European Parliament .
This is the legal and institutional answer to your question , Mr Clegg .
With regard to more practical aspects , let me restate my determination to try to find some way , together with the European Parliament , to have Parliament play an active part in these negotiations .
I am therefore perfectly willing , as always , to discuss this matter in somewhat greater depth with the relevant parliamentary committee .
Thank you very much for that reply .
Let me reiterate my appreciation that the Commission and Parliament are , for the first time , speaking with one voice on changes to Parliament 's role in important trade agreements .
I would urge you to do so .
I would ask you what you think we could do together to promote this type of action .
Like you , Mr Clegg , I believe that China ' s accession to the WTO , whenever it takes place , is a matter of crucial importance .
Having said that , I feel that the comparison you make with the Uruguay Round is not totally justified .
I suppose , then , that the Council will be reluctant to require assent because the Council is not in the habit of going much further than is required by the Treaties in terms of consultation with Parliament .
Personally , I am perfectly willing to take part in this . I know , when the time comes , that questions of a rather more political nature will be asked .
That is perfectly normal , I feel , and I look forward to it .
My question , however , concerns concrete matters and the substance of this agreement .
This is a good question .
I remember using this expression , contrasting 80 % and 20 % .
That still leaves 20 % , however , and for a very simple reason .
In bilateral negotiations , each party tries to focus on the areas where he is least competitive , since it is understood that the rest will be left to the others .
That is the first reason .
There is another , more technical reason , involving some subtle points .
Although the designations are fairly similar , there may be very different tariff items .
Let me take the example of spirits . Bourbon and gin are not handled in the same way as whisky and cognac .
Even though all spirits are ostensibly the same , there are cases where tariff items are not the same .
These are more technical considerations , but they show that all these aspects must be looked into and negotiated in detail .
It is not quite over yet .
I mentioned that I would be going to Beijing during the last week in March in order to attempt to resolve what I feel are real difficulties in these negotiations .
These concern the political section with regard to which the Chinese authorities have expressed a number of reservations .
My mandate at present is to attempt to overcome these reservations , and I shall make every effort to do so .
Thank you very much , Mr Lamy .
The time allotted to Mr Lamy has fully elapsed .
Question No 46 will therefore be replied to in writing .
Questions to Mr Fischler
Since the author is not present , Question No 47 lapses .
Question No 48 by ( H-0173 / 00 ) :
Subject : Cost to agriculture of EU enlargement On the basis of the most recent studies and estimates , what cost will the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union place on agriculture and what will be the impact thereof ?
Although I have signed this question , as an elected representative , I must say that I am not really its author .
The Commissioner has not been explicit .
However , his services , the Commission , and some of us MEPs , all know that there are studies and estimates covering this issue .
The Commissioner is , at times , the master of side-stepping the question , with all the skill of a bullfighter , and failing to provide an answer .
However , the Commission , if it wants the countryside to support its positions , must clear the fog , and be explicit .
Mr President , Mrs Izquierdo Rojo , I believe it should not come as news to you that farmers ' revenue does not just consist of subsidies , rather they must earn most of it on the market .
Therefore the comparison you have just drawn is inappropriate to my mind .
Secondly , these are two completely different questions .
In your question , which I answered , you asked what enlargement will cost .
The question as to whether the Common Agricultural Policy will be amended in the course of enlargement , is an entirely different matter .
All I can tell you today is that the CAP that was adopted in Berlin for the next seven years , still holds good .
In addition , a financial perspective was adopted in Berlin , i.e. we decided how much money we could spend .
You raised the idea of studies : the first studies were made several years back , and we sent these to Parliament .
We are in the process of carrying out new studies and as soon as we have the results , we will be more than happy to make them available to you .
Question No 50 by ( H-0190 / 00 ) :
It also analysed the fact that agreements with northern countries are under-utilised , despite the interest shown by other Member States in making use of these fishing opportunities .
Can the Commission say what studies it has carried out on the possibility of transferring quotas and what the outcome was ?
What decisions have been taken to balance the financial cost of agreements with the North and South ?
What is the Commission 's assessment of the above-mentioned imbalances between these two types of agreement ?
I actually referred to this at the beginning of my answer .
You mentioned the Council .
That is why we must overcome this problem .
But I do not believe that we can solve the problem by paying fees for fishing quotas under a new agreement with Greenland .
That is no way to solve the problem .
We must draw a distinction .
" Yes " to sharing out non-utilised quotas and a mechanism for doing so , but we should not start introducing licence fees where we do not have to pay for the quotas .
There is little point in doing that in our view .
Question No 51 by ( H-0195 / 00 ) :
Subject : Compatibility of special export aid with Community law Following the devastation caused by the storm which struck western Europe in December 1999 , the forestry sector is in a particularly serious plight .
Under the Community 's competition rules ( and , in particular , the Community preference requirement ) , such aid is rightly prohibited except when it is intended to remedy a situation which may be regarded as exceptional .
Hence , Article 92 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the EC Treaty states that ' aid to make good the damage caused by natural disasters or exceptional occurrences ' shall be compatible with the common market .
Is the export aid which has been made available by the French Government compatible with Article 92 ?
If so , could such aid be extended to cover timber exports to third countries ?
If so , what are the criteria used by the Commission in order to determine the amount of timber eligible for such aid ? For how long will the aid be available and what is the cost involved ?
The notification from the French Government includes a measure intended to facilitate the transportation of wood from the affected regions .
However , the notifications make no reference whatsoever to where the wood is destined for , in particular , they do not indicate whether it is to be exported to other Member States or to third countries .
Understandably , therefore , the Commission has asked the French Government for additional information .
I should like to ask the Commissioner to clarify his answer .
Obviously such aid is already officially provided for in the countries of the Community .
My question clearly concerned exports outside the common market , outside the Union .
We can only apply existing Community law in such cases .
Provision is made , under Article 87 of this Community law , for damage - and I repeat , damage - which is the direct consequence of a disaster , to be made good .
In other words , firstly there has to be evidence of damage , and secondly , a direct link has to be established .
This would be a clear distortion of the market .
Question No 52 by ( H-0202 / 00 ) :
Subject : Preventive distillation - increasing the quotas The Commission has opened preventive distillation at 10 million hectolitres for the 1999 / 2000 wine year .
The notification periods have been extended .
According to available information , the quotas in some Member States have already been exceeded .
Does the Commission feel able to increase the preventive distillation volume from 10 to 15 million hectolitres and to comply with special requests from certain Member States ( e.g. Germany ) for a higher volume ?
Yes , Mr President , the Commission received the communications from the Member States with the applications for preventive distillation , on 24 February .
On the same day , a proposal was submitted to the administrative committee for wine marketing to the effect that the preventive distillation volume should be increased from 10 to 12 million hectolitres .
In fact this proposal met with the approval of a majority of the management committee .
That being the case , it will be possible to fulfil all the contracts concluded in the Member States .
The only exception in this respect is Spain , where , in view of the high number of applications , the take-up rate , if I can put it this way , was 98 % rather than 100 % .
This meant that Germany ' s original allocation of 148 000 hectolitres could be increased to 468 000 hectolitres .
That is what the contracts concluded in Germany amounted to in total .
The amended regulation on preventive distillation will be published in the Official Journal in the near future and will be made retrospective to 24 February .
I take the view - particularly in the light of the fact that we want to achieve a significant reduction in obligatory distillation - that we should not create the impression that we are now back-pedalling .
Thank you very much , Mr Fischler .
Questions Nos 53 to 60 will be replied to in writing .
Questions to Mrs de Palacio
Question No 61 by ( H-0156 / 00 ) :
The Commission has also confirmed that if the two countries in question agree , it will support the inclusion of the line in the trans-European rail network when the guidelines for that network are next revised .
What immediate action does the Commission intend to take in order to expedite such an agreement ?
In fact , these two extremes of the Pyrenees are suffering from saturation since they are the only real land links of any capacity between the Iberian Peninsula and the rest of the European continent .
Furthermore , as you know very well , Spain and France have set up a monitoring centre for traffic in the Pyrenees in order to seek the most suitable solution to the problem facing them .
In any event , the final decision in this respect is the responsibility of the Member States .
With regard to the Trans-European Networks we cannot include anything which is not supported by the Member States .
We are right , therefore , to ask questions about the future .
Personally , I am afraid that provision will be made for a little tourist train just to , perhaps , keep the ecologists happy , and that will be all .
However , as you well know , we clearly have problems with one of the countries involved with regard to the railway between Oloron and Canfranc .
There is no doubt that crossing the great mountain ranges of the European Union is a problem .
Furthermore , we intend to produce a communication on this subject - on the Pyrenees and the Alps - before the end of the year , proposing concrete solutions .
However , the concrete solutions must clearly be accepted by the Member States .
Having said all this , and as I have made very clear in some of my appearances , I believe that we must make an enormous effort to develop goods transport by rail .
Madam Vice-President of the Commission , I would like to know firstly whether it is true that one country is causing difficulties , secondly , which country this is and thirdly , what type of difficulty it is causing .
I would also like to know , since you have mentioned it , when the Commission communication on the report on the Alps and the Pyrenees will be made available ?
Since you have asked , the state which has opposed it until now is France .
It is clearly the countries of the Iberian peninsular which have the greatest interest here .
This does not only affect Spain , as the bordering country , but it also affects road traffic to Portugal , given that the Pyrenees pose such an obstacle .
Safety aspects are also important , given the use of extensive tunnels .
Question No 62 by ( H-0163 / 00 ) :
Subject : Blood / alcohol limits for drivers Since 1988 , the Commission has been advocating Community legislation concerning maximum blood alcohol limits for drivers .
In 1997 , the Commission stated that it was necessary , to reduce the number of road casualties and increase road safety .
At present , the limits vary widely within Europe , from 0.8 in some countries down to 0.2 in Sweden .
Sweden ' s experience has been very encouraging ; a low limit has increased road safety .
The EU is at present adopting legislation to promote mobility and road safety .
Why is the Commission reluctant to submit a proposal concerning maximum blood / alcohol limits for drivers , even though this would reduce the number of road deaths ?
As everyone knows , the excessive consumption of alcohol is the cause of many of our road accidents .
The European Union has supported , and the Commission considers important , a limitation on general levels of alcohol in the blood , specifically to guarantee that appropriate limits are not exceeded .
I must point out however that , although the Commission intends to express this type of guideline , it will do so by means of a recommendation .
Given the principle of subsidiarity , we do not consider it appropriate for us to propose a directive setting this limit on alcohol levels , but rather we should produce a recommendation to the Member States on this issue .
Alcohol constitutes the second greatest danger to health in the EU according to a report on health produced by a high-level working party .
Alcohol is also the greatest contributory cause of accidents on European roads and a very important contributory cause of the most serious accidents .
I find it extremely commendable that the Commission too considers that blood alcohol levels must be kept low among drivers , for safety and alcohol do not go together .
We know from the experience of countries which have low upper limits that this is a way of reducing the number of deaths and serious accidents .
I should also like to put a following question to the Commissioner .
Why should it be impossible to issue a directive covering this area when the majority of countries now have an upper limit of 0.5 per mille and only a few have a limit in excess of 0.5 per mille ?
As you have pointed out very well , the number of deaths on European roads caused by excessive alcohol consumption has risen to 10 000 .
Most countries apply a level of 0.5 mg .
The 0.8 mg limit is only in force in Ireland , Luxembourg , Italy and the United Kingdom , and only Sweden has a limit below 0.5 mg .
We are going to present a communication on road safety , which you in this Parliament will receive shortly , and recommend a maximum limit of 0.5 mg .
We consider that legislation should be reserved for cases where it is absolutely necessary to legislate .
Since there are very few states with a limit greater than 0.5 mg , we consider that his recommendation will be sufficient to persuade the relevant states to harmonise their own laws .
We believe that subsidiarity and the recommendation will be sufficient for the alcohol level in the various states to be set at 0.5 mg or less than 0.5 mg .
As we are talking about blood-alcohol levels I wonder if the Commissioner , in her recommendation is also going to be looking at the broader issue of drugs ?
This is an important issue that is often left out when we are talking about driving .
Will this ever be put into the recommendation ?
The problem is obviously that drugs produce states which clearly limit drivers ' response capacities .
Lastly , I must add that , in the case of drugs , control is more difficult , since the control systems are not so automatic nor so immediate as they are in the case of alcohol levels .
Question No 63 by ( H-0164 / 00 ) :
Subject : Verona-Munich railway link The project for a new Verona-Munich through railway line has been under discussion for years .
Traffic on the Verona-Munich route is increasing , yet only one third of the capacity of the existing railway line is being used .
The way to reduce the air and noise pollution caused by long-distance lorries would be to switch all heavy through traffic from road to rail .
To achieve this , motorway tolls for goods vehicles must be increased and a fast and efficient railway line must be provided .
If a new line is built , care must be taken to select the option that has the least damaging impact on the environment .
As the infrastructure is supposed to last for hundreds of years , it is essential to find the best solution .
It appears that the Commission favours the Brenner base tunnel project .
Why does the Commission not intend to reconsider the alternative ATT3 project put forward by the engineers Trojer and Kauer ?
Has the Commission studied the potential environmental impact of the various projects for a Verona-Munich rail link ?
Can the Commission finance a further study of the question of the transport of goods via the Brenner ?
In principle , it largely follows the route of the current conventional line .
The proposal of the ATT 3 project , which is well known to the Commission , deviates from the route established in the guidelines of the Trans-European Network .
I must say that the preparatory and construction measures have always been based on the agreed lines , and that to deviate from that initial approach would cause a significant delay in the development of the project itself .
After all , it would not be too difficult to transfer all the through heavy goods traffic to rail and bring it through the mountain , thereby solving the problem once and for all .
All we need is a ban on transiting heavy goods traffic .
This would relieve pressure on the Brenner motorway , which is under great strain and also causing a few problems of a socio-political nature , and would also free it up for private vehicles and local heavy goods traffic .
Amongst other things , in order to ban heavy transport , the first thing we need is an alternative route for heavy transport .
The truth is that there is currently no such alternative .
Therefore , the first thing we have to do is suitably develop the corresponding routes .
Of course , all of this is linked to our society and its development .
It is completely beyond me as to why anyone should ask the Commission to make sure that something is as harmful to the environment as it possibly could be .
This is all about people living in a sensitive area who must be protected .
The fact that this request came from the Greens makes it all the more baffling , and it should be thrown out for this reason .
Thank you very much , Commissioner .
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed , Questions Nos 64 to 114 will be replied to in writing .
That concludes Questions to the Commission .
( The sitting was suspended at 7.25 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m. )
Eco-label
Mr President , as you just said , this is the second reading for the directive on the awarding of the eco-label .
The European eco-label is , it has to be said , a product of the internal market .
Its function , partly in response to the increasing flow of products across borders , is to label products and services which have a high level of environmental compatibility .
And this is of major importance when it comes to the daily shopping trip .
I am of the opinion that the meaningfulness of a European label which is tailored to the European internal market is beyond dispute .
However , it is often a long road from the conception of a good idea to its practical implementation .
This is precisely the case with the eco-label whose main claim to fame at present is , unfortunately , its virtual anonymity in most States .
I think that only a very small minority of citizens have ever actually seen it and for this reason my report has paid greatest attention to the wholly inadequate preparations for the label .
What are the weaknesses in the current eco-label regulation which have given rise to today ' s unsatisfactory situation ?
I think that a key problem lies in the cost structure of the label .
The test procedures which companies and their products must go through in order to obtain the label are long and costly .
We are therefore advocating that the stipulation of testing requirements should look to keep test costs to an absolute minimum , although this must obviously not be misinterpreted as a qualitative watering down of testing requirements .
As well as the cost of test procedures , the on-going fees which must be paid to the European eco-label system are also highly significant .
Here , too , we envisage a reduction in costs for SMEs , firms in developing countries and enterprises involved in other aspects of European or international environmental legislation .
In this regard , I should cite , for example , EMAS and ISO 14001 .
In addition to a reduction in costs for certain enterprises , the report also envisages a maximum fee .
In this we are following the example of almost all the national labelling systems , which also have this ceiling .
The purpose of this approach is to make the labelling system equally attractive to large consumer goods manufacturers and service providers .
We must also clearly understand that without a certain amount of financial impetus for the European label we will not make any headway .
In my opinion , we should take on the responsibility for this financing .
Another important point in this second reading is the regulation of the relationship between the national eco-label and the European equivalent .
At first reading we were still advocating the gradual abolition of national labels in favour of the European eco-label ; it is not without good reason that we have abandoned this position .
In some States national labels are well established and enjoy public recognition .
This is the case , for example , as regards the Nordic Swan in Scandinavia and the Blue Angel in Germany .
In my estimation it would be nonsensical and contrary to the spirit of subsidiarity to abolish these proven labels in favour of an as yet unestablished European label .
Our approach should be different .
The eco-label regulation treads the fine line between economic and ecological interests , one group wanting above all to enforce stringent environmental requirements , the other with an eye on the marketing aspect of the label .
Both groups , however , have one thing in common : they want the eco-label to succeed .
Mr President , Commissioner , a speaker in this House yesterday expressed the view that economic globalisation is not an incontrovertible necessity but the evil outworking of a few multinationals .
And it goes without saying that this also applies to the awarding of an environmental label in the European Union .
Take the failed WTO negotiations in Seattle , which have opened our eyes as to the difficulty Europe faces in making itself heard by third countries when it comes to its progressive social and environmental standards .
Economic globalisation has already made it possible for developing countries to share in the prosperity of rich countries and will continue to do so in the future .
However , one thing must be made clear from the outset , and the common position before us does just that : the same rules must apply for all states .
If the production plants in a country are required to meet the criteria for the environmental label , then this applies to all the production plants where the product in question is manufactured .
If we can achieve this , then we will have globalised an important environmental principle .
Mr President , we have not yet given up on the goal of a common European label , at least that is my interpretation of the common position .
The eco-label may have suffered thus far from a lack of acceptance , but a working plan which allows for coordination with the national labels can only increase acceptance .
Our proposal in committee to automatically award the eco-label to products and services which already carry national labels and which satisfy the requirements of the European label did not , unfortunately , achieve a majority .
It would have afforded the opportunity to disseminate the European label even more quickly and effectively .
An important issue is the involvement of non-governmental organisations and associations .
It is essential that expert opinion and protection of consumer interests have some influence on the awarding process .
This can only benefit the status and merit of what the label stands for in terms of ecology and the consumer .
The aim of our amendments is to increase the participation of associations .
There is much to be said on the question of fees .
We need to introduce a system which covers the costs and it is therefore not right at this stage to fix maximum fees , which would seem premature until such time as we know the actual costs involved .
In this regard I would disagree with Mr Schnellhardt because it seems to me that even though the well-known national labels do give rise to costs , suppliers are still happy to acquire them .
It is right , however , that there should be a cost reduction for SMEs and for products from developing countries .
Overall , we must succeed in establishing the European label in Member States which do not have their own label .
If the common label has a function at present , it is that of filling the environmental label gaps in Europe .
The path which we are taking is the correct one , but a recognised common European label is not yet in sight and a major effort is required in this area .
We know from the Nordic Swan and the German Blue Angel that the eco-labelling of products is an extremely significant and powerful tool for getting consumers to change their purchasing behaviour and to shop in an environmentally friendly way .
I think that the Council ' s position is fairly commendable , and I am also satisfied with the amendments from the committee and from Mr Schnellhardt .
I consider , however , that the proposal needs to be reinforced in certain ways , above all when it comes to the role played by consumer and environmental groups and the co-existence of different eco-labelling systems .
Those who argue the case for having only the one eco-labelling system are making a big mistake , I believe .
I am totally convinced that , wherever there are well-functioning eco-labelling systems , it will be possible also to introduce the EU flower that much more easily and more quickly .
It is about getting the consumer to look for and to choose eco-labelled products .
Once purchasing behaviour has been altered , it is extremely simple .
The key to success lies , to a very large degree , in the credibility of the environmental and consumer groups and in the good opinion in which these are held .
If these groups are involved in the right way , eco-labelling will also develop very much more quickly .
If you would allow me to make a point of order ...
Mr President , the proposal we are now debating for a revised Community programme for awarding the eco-label has been significantly amended since the Commission ' s original proposal .
It has also been altered a great deal since its first reading by the European Parliament .
Happily , all these changes are , on the whole , improvements .
Those of us in the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left believe that we have obtained a relatively good hearing for the views we already held at the first reading .
It is therefore especially important that the idea of prohibiting national eco-labels has been abandoned .
I also believe it is important to realise that there is nothing to prevent the existence of parallel eco-labels .
In Scandinavia , which perhaps has what is at present the most efficient eco-labelling system , there are now already a number of eco-labels complementing , and operating fairly well alongside , each other .
Secondly , we want the environmental movement to have a decisive influence over both the awarding of labels and the criteria for receiving them .
Our experience shows that the labels would , in that way , be given greater credibility .
Moreover , this system functions excellently where it has been introduced .
We are therefore especially pleased that the idea of a more commercial form of organisation has been abandoned .
I also think it is good that the idea of a graded eco-label has been done away with .
It is easier just to have the picture of a flower .
A graded system , like the one that existed originally , would probably cause more hassle than it would be worth in terms of additional information provided .
We are also pleased that the proposal is to cover the service sector , too .
Mr President , whilst recently at my sister-in-law 's house , I noticed that she had a container of " eco-friendly " washing-up liquid .
The moral of this story is , of course , that to compete in the mainstream market , eco-products must give a performance close to their alternatives .
Only then can these products move out of the niche market they already have and into the mainstream .
The eco-label should not be associated with mediocrity .
The German Blue Angel and the Nordic Swan have led the way in eco-labelling .
To scrap these successful schemes now would be to throw away the baby with the bath water .
In the long term , I can see the merits of the single European eco-label , but this must not be imposed on those with existing schemes .
A single scheme has advantages for business : for example , only one registration fee and inspection , standardised packaging , and advantages for consumers who will not be confused by a plethora of labels .
Eco-labelling is moving on from forest products and detergents to computers and household appliances , but why stop there ?
Services such as tourism and clean taxes could register .
In addition , groups of similar small business could possibly cooperate and register together .
In the United Kingdom , we have a flourishing ethical financial services sector , offering savings and pensions which invest from a green perspective .
These should not only qualify for an eco-label , but be allowed to sell their products without hindrance throughout the EU in a single financial services market .
The proposal for a revised Community programme for awarding the eco-label is mainly aimed at making the programme more effective and more open and at improving the methods used .
It ought to make the programme more attractive to manufacturers , distributors and consumers .
In particular , the proposal accords greater responsibility to the bodies responsible for eco-labelling and to various interest groups when it comes to establishing ecological criteria .
The Commission considers that these objectives will be fulfilled thanks to cooperation with , and interest on the part of , the European Parliament and the Council .
I believe that the relationship between the Community ' s eco-labelling programme and the national eco-labelling programmes is better and more clearly defined in the current proposal .
The proposal also reinforces the interested parties ' role and participation .
This applies , in particular , to various interest groups and to the environmental bodies dedicated to eco-labelling .
Their participation is crucial if the present voluntary instrument is to be favoured and made more widely available in the correct way .
It is one of the few European instruments which will , in fact , be able to play a key role in supporting sustainable consumption .
With regard to the amendments tabled by the European Parliament , the Commission considers that these have helped improve the exposition of the regulation .
We are therefore able to accept these amendments .
We are therefore able to approve these amendments , too .
Amendment No 5 proposes four ways of making the fee structure more flexible and easier for those who apply to be accepted .
The Commission supports this overarching objective .
Amendment No 6 concerns fee reductions for small and medium-sized companies , as well as developing countries , and emphasises that these should be appreciable .
The Commission is able to support this amendment , too .
To summarise , the Commission is therefore able to approve all the amendments .
Mr President , I wanted earlier on , as I concluded my previous speech , to make a point of order to which I should like to alert the President and the Bureau .
Before the vote tomorrow , it needs to be made clear that certain amendments to the present report have not been translated .
They are only to be found in English .
This applies , for example , to Amendments 7 and 8 . These are only available in English , which is totally unacceptable .
If we are to be able to vote on this report , these amendments need at least to be read out before they are voted on .
That was the first point .
The second concerns , for example , the work programme for environmental strategy ...
( The President cut the speaker off )
Thank you very much for pointing out the position regarding amendments .
The services are looking at this and I hope that they will be ready in time for tomorrow .
We cannot allow the debate to continue because we are running out of time .
Thank you , Commissioner , for your contribution .
That concludes the debate .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
Incineration of waste
On Amendments Nos 36 and 37 , which have been distributed , I am shown as the joint mover of the motion .
I discovered this yesterday evening and notified DG1 of the fact this morning .
DG1 acknowledged that a mistake had been made by the translation service .
I then asked for this to be corrected .
DG1 refused , saying that they did not have the time .
I should like to say that I think this is completely unacceptable .
They have had more than 12 hours in which to correct the amendments concerned .
I feel very put out that these have been made publicly available with wrong information about who the movers of the motion are .
It is a question , then , of Amendments Nos 36 and 37 , of which I am not the joint mover of the motion .
Thank you very much for pointing that out .
We will try and make sure it is corrected by tomorrow .
Mr President , Commissioner , first of all , I would like to thank the Members for their fruitful cooperation .
As a result of this , we have been able to table various amendments in a joint effort and reach agreement on a number of issues .
This is illustrated by the compromise we reached on the scope of the directive .
I would also like to thank the European Commission for providing the information and technical advice , which was extremely helpful .
In a civilised society , it is to be expected that waste should be processed in an effective and environmentally responsible manner .
In the European Community , this will increasingly be done by incinerating waste and recycling energy .
This process will obviously need to be closely monitored for emissions of dangerous substances .
Once we have reached a point where , in order to counter the adverse effects on the environment , dangerous and organic waste , in particular , is no longer dumped , incineration should then inevitably deliver environmental benefits .
By tightening up emission standards , a balance was struck at first reading between what is viable over a period of about five to seven years and what is necessary from an environmental point of view .
The emission values currently proposed by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection are a reasonable compromise .
It should , however , be noted that stricter requirements are already in place in a number of Member States .
It is one thing to prescribe sound environmental standards but quite another to comply with these .
Compliance requires adequate control which , in turn , requires proper monitoring .
Just imagine a situation in which we laid down excellent standards for emissions of dangerous substances such as dioxins but , on the other hand , left the way open for exemptions from all kinds of monitoring obligations .
We would then run the risk of not , on balance , making any progress , and the quality of air would not improve .
In addition , we also need to avoid a situation where it becomes clear there are long-term health risks for a reason which may not be immediately obvious , namely that the emission of harmful substances is not measured .
We cannot justify the occurrence of illnesses , such as cancer or blood diseases , which we have not prevented because there was no obligation to measure the emission of harmful substances by incineration plants .
Mr Florenz was among those who were right to point out that clear measuring regulations are vital .
I expect , therefore , that we will be joining forces in order to put a sound monitoring process in place .
As far as the scope of the directive is concerned , I am pleased to say that , thanks to good mutual cooperation , we have reached an acceptable wording .
Regarding the definition of coincineration plant , it is unfortunate that we were unable to reach agreement on this beforehand .
After many discussions involving various Members and the European Commission , a simple solution , which may well be acceptable , has been found in the form of Amendment No 43 .
If waste were used as a replacement raw material , such as in the recycling of glass , the relevant process would fall outside the scope of the directive .
If , on the other hand , only part of the waste were to be used as a replacement raw material , then this process would fall within the directive ' s scope .
Consequently , the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection has made a recommendation that energy recycling by means of combined electricity / heat production should also apply to the incineration of waste .
The Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection has asked for ammonia levels to be measured .
It is wrong , however , that the standards for ammonia should not apply to all installations .
Accordingly , I have , for reasons of consistency , proposed an ammonia standard for cement kilns and for ordinary waste incinerators .
As far as the continuous sampling of dioxins is concerned , this appears to be quite feasible .
Belgium has started to use such a measuring technique in the wake of its dioxin crisis .
A cumulative sample is taken for a one-month period .
After this period , this sample is measured and the result gives a good indication of the levels of dioxin emitted during that month .
Needless to say , this is a more effective monitoring method than the random measurement method used twice a year .
According to experts , the costs are not higher since the measurement of cumulative samples is far cheaper .
As such , the cost of the equipment for continuous sampling is recouped within the space of a few years .
At first reading , considerable improvements were made to the Commission proposal thanks to a great deal of support .
It was at that stage that expectations were raised amongst the citizens .
I strongly urge MEPs to meet these expectations .
A consistent approach taken by the European Parliament will benefit our credibility amongst the citizens , especially those citizens living in the vicinity of plants which incinerate or co-incinerate waste .
This raises problems for us at several phases of the incineration process : the reception , processing and handling of the waste .
One might well ask what was the point of combining these two matters .
We can find the answer in Mr Blokland ' s report , which is violently opposed to the coincineration industry .
Paradoxically , however , by the same token , the rapporteur is in favour of mixing dangerous and non-dangerous waste .
What is the advantage of this for the environment ?
Our Group has no wish to favour either type of industry , since both are extremely useful to waste management in Europe .
The practices of each Member State must be taken into consideration , while maintaining the existing industrial balance and investigating how the environment can be better protected .
This is what the common position proposes .
Priority must be given to the emission limits for the most harmful substances , i.e. NOx , dioxins and furanes .
Moreover , the common position suggests an NOx limit value for the incineration of dangerous waste for the year 2007 .
Such a thing does not yet currently exist .
As regards dioxins and furanes , the limit values have now been made mandatory for all types of waste .
Until now , they applied only to non-dangerous waste .
It is therefore unfortunate that the Blokland report is putting unrealistic solutions forward when it is known that a good many directives on waste management are not yet applied or are not properly applied by Member States .
If one wishes to go too far , one becomes counter-productive .
It is completely unrealistic to wish to review the limit values of this directive every three years , if one considers the considerable investment that the industry would have to make .
What the industry needs is legal certainty and reasonable time periods .
Commissioner , waste management in Europe must undergo complete reform as a matter of urgency .
Mr President , I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Blokland on this report .
We know that waste incineration is a very difficult and highly technical area , but I think that a creditable piece of work has been done in connection with this report .
I believe that we are , in this way , obtaining a good tool for preventing and limiting environmental damage in connection with waste incineration and for preventing and limiting the associated risks to human health .
Moreover , there are also some good resources which are being put to use .
I also think it is good that we should now be told very precisely which plants are covered by these rules and also which types of waste are thus exempt from them .
Finally , there is the absolutely crucial point about establishing emission limits in relation to air and water - whether we are talking about heavy metals or dust , ammonia , dioxin , sulphur dioxide or other hazardous substances .
I think that defensible levels have been identified in this connection , and a reasonable balance has been struck between incineration plants proper and the combined plants .
It is a balance that I hope will be maintained , including during the vote tomorrow here in the plenary sitting .
Again in contrast to Mrs Grossette , I want , moreover , to say that the levels set here for emissions are realistic .
They are technologically feasible and they are , in actual fact , already being applied in a number of the Member States .
The existing plants which do not at present fulfil the requirements are also to be given a good few years in which to be adapted to the new requirements laid down here .
Mr President , Mr Blokland has carried out an enormous task .
This subject is incredibly involved .
Moreover , the lobbyists have been something else .
I should never have believed that there were so many of them concerned about waste in Europe .
You might have thought it was gold rather than waste they were talking about .
One never knows , but it perhaps bodes well for the future that a recycling industry is developing which possesses such competence and power in terms of financial resources and personnel .
Obviously , the EU must create a sustainable system for protecting air , land and water .
This is a common commitment and a common responsibility .
It clearly ought , too , to be regulated at European Union level .
But is this the right level at which to produce such very detailed technical descriptions as this Directive is attempting to produce ?
I should like us at some point , but not now , to debate the opportunities for creating framework legislation in this area .
With the predicted increase in incineration , it is vital that overall EU legislation on waste disposal and on air quality is consistent and comprehensive .
We must look at the whole hierarchy .
Incineration may increase as stricter controls are put on landfill , but it does not go hand in hand with recycling and environmentally friendly waste-disposal methods .
Building new incinerators is a costly and long-term venture which in turn has to have a long-term return for the investors , so it would be in their interests for waste to continue to be burned .
This Parliament must protect the health and quality of life of the people that we represent .
There is no safe threshold for dioxin emissions and more research is being done on the effects of micro-particles on human health and the environment .
So we have to ensure that there is frequent testing and monitoring , that regular and detailed information is made available to the public , and that real action is taken against breaches of the rules .
Measuring emissions twice a year may give an early indication of what is happening in an incineration plant and in the air that the local community is breathing .
Measuring once every two years would not do that .
So we must set the highest possible standards and not make exceptions which will weaken this very important legislation .
Mr President , you cannot dispose of waste by dumping it in the sea , shooting it into space , or by simply incinerating it .
It has a habit of reappearing , often in a more harmful form .
Incineration can be the cause of illnesses , air pollution , climatic change and a rise in the sea level .
A great deal of waste is incinerated these days , but not , in fact , by these expensive installations equipped with flue-gas cleaning devices .
These installations are not being brought up to date .
In fact , they are closed down if it appears that it is cheaper to co-incinerate waste in the cement industry and in electricity plants .
This is why it is important that incineration should cost the same across the board and meet the same high environmental requirements .
This issue , however , should form an exception .
Anyone , rich or poor , must be able to breathe , remain healthy and keep their feet dry .
Only a reckless short-term vision and the pursuit of quick profits can explain why attempts are still being made to weaken this directive .
Amendments of this kind reduce the directive to rules for those who would poison us and threaten the world with another flood .
The Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left therefore supports the proposals made by Mr Blokland and hopes that destructive amendments will be withdrawn or rejected .
Mr President , waste management is now central to achieving the highest standards of environmental protection .
Regrettably , our consumer society is contributing to an increasing volume of domestic waste and there is also growing concern in relation to industrial waste .
Thankfully there is now an awareness among citizens of the importance of protecting the natural environment , and in my view the social and economic climate is conducive to achieving this objective .
We are all conscious of the need to reduce the volume of waste now disposed of in landfill sites and every effort must be made to find more environmentally friendly alternatives .
Mr President , Commissioner , firstly I would like to thank the rapporteur for his work .
The recommendation for second reading before us is an extremely important legislative resolution , not just for the environment but also for the economy of the European Union .
We should treat this seriously .
Not all amendments which are probably well intentioned from the environmental viewpoint are necessarily an improvement on the current situation .
I think this can be seen from some of the amendments which were put forward in committee with regard to coincineration and which now reappear as amendments in plenary .
We cannot in any way guarantee that in restricting coincineration we will actually achieve what we want environmentally .
Above all we want to save fossil fuels .
If we set up the hurdles wrong here , then we will not achieve the right environmental objective .
For this reason , our Group rejects the amendments which have been resubmitted by Mr Blokland , the Greens and others .
However , I think that there are still some amendments decided on in committee which we can support in good conscience in order to improve the common position .
I think it is realistic and , as the industry in question is saying the same , albeit with its hand in front of its mouth , we should be altogether more positive .
I think , therefore , that we are on the right track in accepting much of what has been decided in the committee , but certainly nothing which goes any further .
Mr President , unusually tonight I am not speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group , largely because I have some particularly strong views about this directive .
I do believe that Mr Blokland has produced the wrong report at the wrong time for the wrong reasons .
Given a task to do , Mr Blokland has produced a new and revised report that has certainly exceeded anything that we have done before .
We cannot say that it is all wrong .
Indeed there are many sensible proposals put forward in areas where the technology makes it possible to advance .
But quite frankly we cannot expect , having already given industry one set of rules to implement only a year or two ago , to hand them a completely new set of rules so quickly .
We have to expect that it will take time to implement this report .
Mr Blokland has also exceeded in many ways the brief he was given .
If one is being kind to this directive one could describe it as being good in parts , like the curate 's egg .
Unfortunately , this is going to give environment policy a bad name .
We should not be constantly re-regulating incinerators . We should be seeking ways to avoid incineration in the first place .
Parliament 's objective in waste management strategy is not to constantly tighten rules on existing incinerating plant , it is to change the role of waste management , to change the type of waste management that we do .
We would be much better concentrating our efforts in the next few years on recycling , re-use and other methods of reducing the waste heap .
If we do not , we will very soon find ourselves back with this problem again .
Mr President , I certainly agree with Mr Bowe 's final summary .
So I and many of my colleagues will be backing most of Mr Blokland 's amendments because we want the highest possible standards .
It would be a case of " throw it on the furnace " and putting it out of sight and out of mind which to my mind is a false approach .
We have to concentrate on reducing waste , recycling what is left and leaving incinerators as a last resort .
Mr President , I too would like to thank Mr Blokland for his report which strives to improve the Commission 's proposal , and the authors of the other amendments which do so as well .
But incineration has to be considered as a last resort and - as has been said already - waste reduction , re-use and recycling are the main things we should be striving for .
I just wonder about Mr Bowe 's statement about the need to reduce , recycle and re-use waste .
Will his position remain the same when he is debating the packaging directive ?
It will be interesting to see if he sticks to his principles there .
The only thing incineration does , as Mrs Evans has said , is to encourage the need for more waste .
It will not be economically viable if you do not have enough waste to keep the incinerators going .
We also must remember that waste does not disappear .
It is turned into dioxins and also toxic ash - what will you do with that ?
In Ireland , some operators are proposing using it in building materials .
What will be the long-term consequences of that ?
In Ireland , regardless of what my colleague Mr Hyland said , we have an appalling record on waste management .
We have one of the highest landfill records in Europe .
Now it seems the government are moving from landfill to incineration and it is being presented as the green option .
They say : " We are turning waste into energy - isn 't that wonderful ? " when in actual fact they are trying to hoodwink the public into believing that this is something that is ecologically sound .
The recent court case in Ireland which decided against the siting of an incinerator in an agricultural area was extremely important .
It is very important that we get our act right , that we look first and foremost at waste management .
For any government to propose that incineration should be introduced instead of landfill is completely misguided .
We have to look at the root causes of why the waste is there in the first place .
Mr President , the amendments by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy underline generally the high levels of environmental protection , and for that reason many of these amendments are acceptable .
There are differing infrastructures for the treatment and incineration of waste in different countries , however , and , as a result , the same provisions are not in fact the same for everyone .
In Finland and some other countries the sorting of waste in close proximity to where it originates is very advanced .
Thus , we do not incinerate mixed waste , as they do in certain countries .
The incineration of mixed waste is bad environmental policy .
Sorted waste can be incinerated effectively together with other fuels in a so-called coincineration process .
The amendments by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy unjustifiably lump together the incineration of mixed waste with parallel incineration .
That might have an adverse effect , as a result of its indirect economic impact , on levels of environmental protection in the countries that sort waste .
For that reason , Amendments Nos 14 , 17 , 18 and 27 should not be adopted .
Finally , I would like say that the cement industry lobby should not be put in a competitive position that is better than that enjoyed by the hazardous waste disposal plants .
Mr President , I find myself in agreement with Mrs Grossette and Mrs Paulsen and - rather alarmingly for both of us - with Mr Bowe .
But I want to make a particular point in relation to an alarm which has been raised in the United Kingdom by the agricultural sector literally in the last few days .
A number of United Kingdom MEPs have been contacted by farming interests , who are very worried that the incineration directive will apply to all on-farm incinerators in the United Kingdom .
Typically , such incinerators deal with animal waste from the agriculture sector and with the disposal of empty pesticide containers at a rate of less than 50 kg an hour .
Both processes satisfy the criteria of best practicable environmental option and are accepted by environmental inspectors in the United Kingdom .
Have they received any representations from United Kingdom ministers ?
I have given the Commissioner notice of these questions .
Mr President , the treatment of waste and the whole policy on waste is becoming an ever more important part of EU environmental policy .
The Commission ' s proposal is not a total response to this idea , and is rather based on the notion that everything must and can be burnt .
I also hope there is support for the proposal that was very much endorsed by the Committee to facilitate the incineration of waste produced by the paper and cellulose industry at the production site .
This waste is an important energy source not only for the industrial plants themselves but also for the surrounding community .
Mr President , the directive on the incineration of waste is well intended but I think those responsible for preparing it have gone into too much detail .
I am mainly worried about the so-called coincineration of waste .
Sorted community waste and , for example , the fibrous pulp sludge that is produced in forest industry processes serve as good fuel supplements for many heating plants .
The draft , however , calls for ongoing , expensive , to some extent impossible , and environmentally unnecessary monitoring of plants that are engaged in harmless coincineration .
There are many amendments in the report that are problematic .
I think the matter should either go back to the Committee or the Council ' s common position , at least its main features , should be adhered to .
Mr President , honourable Members , efforts to set limits for pollutants produced by waste incineration and to introduce specific control procedures are indeed a positive step .
It is unacceptable for pollution to be transferred from the air into water and the ground .
The directive makes some headway in that direction .
Nevertheless , the problems inherent in waste incineration still remain , since it is the actual burning process which produces toxic substances , including dioxins .
This applies even more to domestic waste which contains negligible quantities of toxic substances before it is burned .
Treating dangerous and non-dangerous waste in the same way therefore exacerbates the problem .
What is more , the cost of installing and operating incineration units is far higher than the cost of mechanical recycling or sanitary landfill .
In a nutshell , the legislative proposal under discussion will not solve the problems inherent in incineration as a waste management method .
Mr President , I would like to thank Mr Blokland for this report ; he has had a very hard job to do .
Drafting environmental legislation for the whole of Europe is a demanding task , as circumstances in Member States differ enormously .
I myself come from a country where we have already opted for a policy that corresponds amazingly closely to the EU strategy on waste .
Only Finland has already embarked on perfectly feasible practices , as you have heard this evening .
This should not be happening .
Mrs Paulsen , was right : this is exactly where compliance with the principle of subsidiarity is needed .
If more stringent requirements regarding emissions are being illogically imposed on the use of waste as fuel than for other fuels , fuels classified as waste will cease to be used .
There are no alternative proposed uses for waste : it would be deposited in landfill sites .
That will add to the formation of methane , as a result of putrefaction of organic waste , and the greenhouse phenomenon .
This holds true especially for the incineration of harmless sludge produced by the paper and cellulose industry .
It is important that Parliament amends the proposal for the directive in this respect in accordance with the Committee ' s amendment .
The Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy adopted some proposals that , if realised , would make it harder to practise ecologically justified coincineration .
Another example is the call for the ongoing monitoring of the ammonia content of gas from chimneys .
That will add substantially to the costs of monitoring with no benefit to the environment , as the monitoring obligations have not just been imposed on those plants where ammonia emissions are generally produced .
Investments that do not bring a value added element with regard to the environment mean less investments that are of benefit to the environment .
Mr President , Mr Blokland , ladies and gentlemen , waste management is a complex task .
This is confirmed yet again by our discussions and the particularly powerful lobbying .
I therefore approve of the European Union ' s approach which is to adopt an overall strategy in relation to this major environmental and health issue .
Nonetheless , personally speaking , I have always been rather worried to see the incineration of dangerous and non-dangerous waste dealt with in the same legislation , and I expressed my opinion on this point at first reading .
The majority decided in favour of coincineration .
My opinion is that today we must fight to prevent the emission standards for dangerous waste being relaxed .
The volume of waste to be incinerated is going to be significantly increased .
The figure of 31 million tonnes in 1990 has been mentioned .
This year we are talking about close to 60 million tonnes , and waste incineration generates , as everyone has mentioned , the emission of particularly dangerous substances into the atmosphere and soil .
The debate has focused on coincineration .
Mr President , we all know that disposing of waste in an environmentally friendly manner and utilising its energy by means of the latest technology is a requirement of our time and wholly appropriate .
The directive on the incineration of waste contains important starting points for introducing compulsory high environmental standards throughout the European Union which have already been in place in some Member States for a number of years .
And this is important and necessary .
The aim of the directive is to establish emission levels which ensure harmless and environmentally friendly incineration of both dangerous and non-dangerous waste in incineration and coincineration plants without presenting any risk to human health .
People are sensitised today and have fears of a high level of air pollution and the illnesses which can result and so the policy must also create completely clear framework conditions to limit the risk .
Nevertheless , I must say that Mr Blokland is proposing some regulations and stringent conditions for the directive which go way beyond the objective .
The operating conditions for incineration plants , as proposed in Amendment No 11 , are neither appropriate to the objective nor practicable but , quite simply , superfluous .
Science and practice have shown for some time now that such a measure does not prevent high emissions of hydrogen chlorides and dioxins .
In practice , Amendment No 11 would also mean that many halogenated substances , for example PVC , which frequently occurs in mixed domestic waste , would be excluded from incineration in waste incineration plants .
A further point is to ensure that the directive does not give rise to any protected markets .
Industries which use coincineration plants in their production process have , for many years , successfully concerned themselves with achieving high air purity standards in incineration .
Many companies are also dependent on the use of waste to retain competitiveness and jobs .
Millions have already been spent on measures to reduce energy consumption .
In my opinion , we should not disregard these efforts ....
( The President cut the speaker off )
Mr President , I should like to make two brief points which may well be relevant should this go to conciliation , as I suspect it will .
The first is the impact of this directive on the existing specialist toxic waste incineration industry .
These incinerators have to adhere to higher standards than the coincineration plants .
We need the specialist toxic waste incinerators .
There are only three at the moment in the United Kingdom .
The second point I would make is to underline the point made by Dr Jackson .
I come from a region in the United Kingdom with the highest density of pigs .
If these incinerators are not used , people may well have to go back to burial .
Mr President , first and foremost , I want to thank the rapporteur , Mr Blokland for the considerable commitment he has shown and for his well prepared recommendation for second reading .
Together with the Council ' s determination to arrive quickly at a common position , the report has helped with the efficient reading of the Commission ' s proposal .
The proposed directive on waste incineration goes to the heart of environmental legislation : the protection of public health .
The proposal will help reduce dioxin emissions from incineration by 90 per cent .
As from 2005 , when the directive begins to apply to existing plant , dioxin emissions from incinerators will be insignificant .
Together with the directive on waste deposition , the directive on waste incineration will put a stop to methods of treating waste which do not take account of future generations ' needs and interests .
Both directives constitute a firm basis for the sustainable treatment of the waste hierarchy , with improved preventative measures , better recycling and environmentally safe deposition of waste .
I should like to remind you that there already exists a directive on a waste hierarchy .
It is therefore obvious that , in this case , it is recycling that one should attempt , in the first place , to regulate .
Unfortunately , Mr Bowe , it has been 11 years since the technical requirements in these directives were last reviewed .
43 amendments have been tabled .
Of these , the Commission is able to approve eight in full , five in part and three in principle .
The following amendments are aimed at clarifying the Commission ' s proposal .
The Commission is not able to approve the first section of Amendment No 14 .
If the word " untreated " were to be deleted , it would no longer be possible to use mixed household waste in co-incinerators , something which would also apply to waste which had undergone extensive pre-treatment .
The second section of this amendment is , in principle , acceptable .
By introducing an explanation of the word " untreated " , the paragraph can be made less ambiguous .
The European Parliament ' s Amendments Nos 1 , 2 and 7 , which are aimed at introducing provisions concerning the treatment of waste , cannot , for reasons of principle , be approved .
The Commission ' s proposal is aimed at introducing limits for emissions and at establishing operative conditions for all waste incinerated or co-incinerated , and this should not influence the legislation concerning the treatment of waste .
The Commission is not able to approve Amendments 5 and 15 which are designed to introduce links to standards of air and water quality .
Legislation of this kind already exists or is at present being prepared , for example the directives concerning air quality and coordinated measures to prevent and limit pollution , together with the proposed framework directive concerning water .
The amendments would involve the provisions in these acts being duplicated or becoming more ambiguous .
Amendments Nos 3 , 16 , 30 and 33-35 are not compatible with the directive ' s structure and cannot therefore be approved .
There has been a certain amount of confusion concerning Amendment No 13 where a number of language versions have been changed but not the English language version .
This amendment cannot , however , be adopted by the Commission .
Articles 12 and 15 of the proposal concern access to information and reporting .
They are now worded in such a way as to guarantee that all players have access to the information they require .
The Commission therefore considers that Amendments Nos 20 and 21 are unnecessary .
Amendments Nos 36-39 are designed to tighten up the requirements with regard to measurements .
The Commission is not able to accept these because they would place an additional burden upon those responsible and because no justification of their real value can be provided .
Finally , Annexes II , IV and V are , as you know , the heart of the Directive , establishing the limits for emissions in the cases of coincineration and incineration .
As I have already mentioned , the Commission accepts the proposed limit of 500 milligrams for nitric oxides in new cement kilns .
This is also justified from the point of view of cost-income analysis .
Any further amendment for the purpose of making the limits stricter or of removing from certain plants the right to be regarded as exceptions would threaten the delicate balance achieved in the common position .
The Commission cannot therefore accept Amendments Nos 23 , 26 , 28 , 29 , 31 , 32 40 , 41 and 42 .
As I have noted previously , the Commission accepts parts of Amendment No 4 , which refers to Directive 74 / 442 and which indirectly makes it possible to exclude the incineration of infected animals on farms .
We consequently accept this principle .
The Commission is to investigate the possibility of extending the exception concerning radioactive waste also to include exceptions such as infected dead animals .
I understand that there is a debate going on in Great Britain , and perhaps in other places too , concerning the incineration of , for example , empty packages of insecticide etc .
It is not , of course , the intention that these should be incinerated .
That sounds dangerous .
Nor does it sound as if one should be burning them at home in one ' s backyard .
I do not want to exclude our needing to review how the exceptions are to be worded once we have obtained more information and know exactly what types of plant are concerned .
There was a certain amount of confusion because we at first believed that we were concerned here with dead animals and infected dead animals , of which we thought exceptions should be made .
My understanding from the interpretation was that the incineration of dead animals is not covered by this directive under the terms of Article 2 ( 2 ) .
I am looking at Article 2 ( 2 ) and I cannot see that exclusion set out there .
It talks about vegetable waste and vegetable waste does not cover dead animals .
However , I will get clarification from the Commissioner personally .
Infectious animal waste is not covered by the scope of this directive in its common position form because it is covered by Directive 90 / 667 .
The adoption of Amendment No 4 to Article 2 ( 2 ) might give the Commission the chance to revise the text so as to include a specific exclusion for infectious animal waste .
As things stand all other animal waste is covered by Article 2 ( 2 ) ( a ) ( v ) of the directive and Directive 90 / 667 .
That concludes the debate .
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon .
Ozone in ambient air
This report sets national targets for ozone levels and proposes action plans for dealing with local problems of exceedance .
To save time I am going to assume that the respiratory and other health problems associated with ozone are understood , and that every Member of this House will want to reduce them .
The disputes between us will be about costs and time-scales , and perhaps also about the accuracy of the Commission 's methodology and the achievability of the targets it has set in this directive .
Let me deal directly with the Commission 's core proposal , the setting of a target for 2010 of 120 mg per cubic metre for ozone , not to be exceeded on more than 20 days per year .
Commission proposals for environmental improvements need to be both ambitious and realistic .
In particular , representatives of the Mediterranean countries point out problems resulting from the strong sunlight they enjoy .
I point out that the Commission 's methodology has taken full account of this but I look at their faces and still see a degree of scepticism .
I did wonder some months ago whether to table amendments , which would suggest a less ambitious outcome , but which would perhaps be more acceptable to Member States .
But the Commission 's 120 mg target is in line with World Health Organisation proposals , and who am I to suggest that they should be challenged ?
The number of days of exceedance could easily be adjusted , but that is something to negotiate only when necessary .
It is a good target and , if it is at all possible , then it should be retained .
The position I have taken in preparing this report is to say that those who want tougher targets than the Commission has proposed should have their views rejected .
But equally it would be wrong for us to water down the draft directive .
That is why I am sorry to see amendments tabled which reflect the Industry Committee 's position .
It seems to have been overlooked by many that these amendments , if carried , would leave the European Union in a much weaker position with regard to ozone targets than is enjoyed by the United States of America .
I ask Parliament to support my proposals , to give its backing to the Commissioner and to let her play her part in negotiating a common position which is both ambitious and politically realistic .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to put forward the proposal of the Industry Committee which was adopted by 40 votes to 4 and which deals with target values in particular .
For this reason , unlike the Environment Committee which has responsibility in this matter , we have not taken on board the proposals of the Commission wholesale , but have modified them .
This is a concern in particular for the warmer regions of Europe , namely coastal regions , which have to cope with a particularly high external ozone penetration .
I think we have put forward a reasonable compromise here .
In any case , we are prepared to compromise with the Commission , particularly as we assume that only this type of compromise will also find approval in the Council .
For this reason we are venturing to re-introduce this proposal on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party , even though it was marginally defeated in the Environment Committee .
We hope that you will consent to it .
Nevertheless , it seems to us to be inadvisable to accept the amendments which make 2010 the time limit , the only one in the short term , and set 2020 as the time limit for long term objectives .
Mr President , I should first of all like to thank Mr Chris Davies for this report .
Adoption of the Commission ' s proposal and of Mr Davies 's report will mean a considerable improvement in air quality for Europe 's citizens .
I think there are two crucial points here .
The first is that the WHO ' s guidelines should be adhered to .
I think that this would be an important step towards preventing serious illnesses and premature deaths , especially among particularly vulnerable sectors of the population , including children .
I think that setting dates is very important to our also in actual fact attaining the objectives .
The amendments would not only impair the Commission ' s proposal but also constitute a deterioration and retrograde step in relation to the situation of which we are now , in fact , aware in Europe .
As Mr Davies also mentioned , standards are , in actual fact , lower than those in the United States .
I do not know how one can call the proposals a happy medium or compromise , as Mr Langen did a moment ago .
I think they are completely incomprehensible and irresponsible .
They would involve serious health and environmental consequences for the people of Europe , together with a bill for Europe ' s health services to the tune of billions .
I would therefore very much recommend that we support the Commission ' s proposal , together with Mr Davies ' report .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to congratulate Mr Davies on his excellent report .
I would also like to thank the European Commission for its sound green proposals .
Back in July 1995 , Strasbourg was labouring under ozone smog .
On the initiative of the Green Group , the European Parliament then adopted a resolution to halve the ozone standard stipulated in the 1992 directive .
The European Commission ' s proposal has made a lot of headway in this direction .
Ozone smog is still on the increase .
It is now even permeating the southern European skies during the winter months .
It has paralysed the traffic in northern Italy over the past couple of weeks and , during the summer months , countries such as Denmark and Sweden also suffer with ozone smog .
Ozone smog is now to be found everywhere in Europe .
Ozone is always an aggressive substance .
There are no safe ozone levels , despite what the World Health Organisation claims .
This is why the Green Group proposes allowing just fifteen exceedances of critical loads per annum .
This number is slightly lower than the proposal made by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection .
My group can also support the twenty exceedances proposed by the Committee . However , it cannot back the proposal made by the Christian Democrats and UNICE Employers ' Union of forty such incidents per annum .
This is far too many and thirty years is a ridiculous time limit , given the fact that the problem is taking on such proportions .
In order to reach this strict ozone standard , the NOx emissions from traffic , in particular , and the emission of volatile organic substances will need to go down drastically .
This is the topic of Mrs Myller ' s report .
In the case of an ozone alert , we also need to be able to take short-term action .
The Dutch Government makes so many concessions to the transport lobby that it fails to realise this .
For my group , the car is no sacred cow .
Mr President , I too wish to thank Mr Davies for the report he has prepared .
It is an extremely important report , especially from a health perspective .
Seen from an environmental point of view , it is also intimately linked to the next subject , namely Mrs Myller ' s report .
I am convinced that these two reports together provide a sound basis for positive developments in Europe in the fields of health and the environment .
During the short time I have in which to speak , I should like to try to scotch some of the flourishing myths which exist with regard to the ozone issue .
This especially applies to the situation in southern Europe .
The climate in southern Europe is often used as a reason for , or explanation of , the high levels of ozone which are often to be found in the summertime .
It is true that climates with long periods of high pressure increase the presence of ozone .
The reasons have to be sought in traffic levels , in industrial processes and in energy production .
It is also these matters which we can influence by means of the Directives concerned .
It is therefore something of a pity that the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy should have such a detached attitude towards the present Directive and only see it in a perspective which favours industry .
Instead , we ought to see what happens when the limits set by the WHO are constantly exceeded and when people ( both residents and tourists ) are constantly exposed to a danger to their health .
We know that the risks are greatest for people who are in the open air a great deal , especially children .
We know that exceedance of ozone limits directly affects children ' s lung capacity .
The Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy ought to consider this when the present directive is voted upon tomorrow .
Mr President , I want to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy for their support of the Commission ' s proposal and draft report .
Within the European Union , we have achieved a certain amount of success when it comes to improving air quality .
Nonetheless , ozone still constitutes one of the most serious environmental problems .
On more than 60 days every summer in a number of locations in Central and Southern Europe , ozone levels exceed the target values set by the World Health Organisation .
The Fifth Environmental Action Programme established the long-term objective of ensuring that these limits were not in fact exceeded .
If we are to be able to solve this problem , we need to take measures with clearly defined subsidiary objectives .
The Commission ' s proposal therefore for the first time establishes clear limits upon ozone levels which , as far as possible , are to be attained by no later than the year 2010 .
The target value in terms of protecting people ' s health means that the WHO ' s guidelines must not be exceeded on more than 20 days per year .
Programmes for reducing emissions are necessary in those cases where the target values are not attained .
The directive on national emission ceilings , which is the next point on the agenda , will lead to improvements in ozone levels so that the target values in question might for the most part be attained .
The proposal is nonetheless a clear expression of the political will that exists to attain the long-term objectives in the directive , too .
Attaining the World Health Organisation ' s target values is only the first step .
In reviewing the Directive in the year 2004 , we must therefore analyse how and when we can achieve the long-term objective .
The Commission is able wholly to approve Amendments Nos 3 , 4 , 6 , 7 , 13 , 14 and 15 .
Amendment No 5 , section two , is also acceptable in view of the fact that the Member States have to prepare emission reduction programmes before they can implement them .
With regard to Amendment No 9 , the Commission is also able to approve some of the changes in their entirety and the majority of them in principle .
We approve those changes relating to short-term measures which are to be implemented in each zone in which the threshold value is exceeded .
We believe it is necessary for this information to be reported to the Commission . However , that issue is more at home in Article 10 .
The Commission is able to approve the principles behind Amendments 10 and 11 .
We are going to redraft subparagraph 1c in order to take account of the idea behind the last section of Amendment No 9 and Amendments Nos 10 and 11 .
Amendment No 12 can be approved in principle .
The Commission believes that progress by the Member States ought to be presented in a form which permits direct comparisons between countries , if that is possible in practice .
The principle in Amendment No 16 is also acceptable .
The Commission agrees that climate changes ought to be emphasised .
This ought , however , to be done in a broader perspective and not only in relation to changes in fuel consumption .
Amendment No 2 advocates coordination between Member States and Applicant States .
This can in principle be approved , but some rewording is required if misinterpretations are to be avoided .
We cannot , however , approve Amendment No 1 .
Even if the Commission agrees that it is important to involve the Applicant States , there is no reason for reiterating this in a directive aimed at the Member States .
Nor is Amendment No 8 acceptable when it comes to predictions of exceedances of information thresholds .
The use of prognosis models is specified as a prerequisite of thresholds for alerting the public , something which would make the way in which the public is informed or alerted less reliable .
This is an issue on which practical considerations and the possibility of practical implementation must be taken into account .
In addition , the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 28 .
That concludes the debate .
The vote will be taken at 12 noon tomorrow .
Atmospheric pollutants
Mr President , the European Union has ambitious goals for the environment , which were set forth , for example , in the Fifth Environmental Action Programme and the acidification strategy presented in 1997 .
These programmes stated as their aim the protection of people and nature from the adverse effects of air pollution , meaning that critical ceilings in respect of nature and people would not be exceeded .
The Commission ' s proposal for a directive on national emission ceilings is an important step in achieving the aims the Union set itself : to protect its citizens from the adverse effects of air pollutants .
The legacy of past decades is going to take some time to put right , however .
We are still not even aware of all the technical potential for ridding ourselves of sources of emissions entirely .
For this reason , it is reasonable to proceed in stages , as the Commission has proposed .
The first stage is the Interim Environmental Objectives to be achieved by 2010 , which means cutting health-threatening ozone loads by two-thirds by that year .
Owing to this , I have recommended in my report a long-term goal , in addition to the interim one , and a final target for 2020 .
In that way , we would finally be able to reach a point where critical levels and loads are not exceeded and everyone will be protected effectively from all known health effects of air pollution .
In this connection I would like to draw your attention to my amendment , in which , owing to a translation error , there is a wrong word in your copy of the document .
In place of ' reached ' it should say ' exceeded ' .
I hope that this will be sorted out before tomorrow ' s vote .
How , then , do we achieve a situation in which air pollution does not exceed tolerance levels for humans and for nature ?
Dealing with these problems and the emissions that cause them together has proved to be the most cost-effective way of tackling the causes of air pollution and bringing it under control .
The biggest disagreements in the implementation of the directive relate to the limit values , i.e. , the emission ceiling set for each country .
There is a clear difference between this proposal and the Commission ' s .
If we were to accept the ceilings in the Gothenburg Protocol , we would never reach the targets that the Union has set itself regarding air pollution .
It has to be said , however , that there is very considerable exaggeration with regard to the costs involved .
Mr President , the industry committee , after much discussion and serious consideration , is overwhelmingly opposed to the Commission 's proposed ceilings , and this is across all groups and nationalities .
The UN ECE ceilings were agreed by all our Member States , by the applicant countries and globally , in a protocol signed at Gothenburg as recently as November 1999 .
Why did the Commission come up with these even stricter and substantially more expensive ceilings only one month later ?
I understand that the groups , the whole Parliament , are split on this issue , between supporters of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy and supporters of the industry committee 's line .
The industry committee urges this House to vote in favour of the amendments which are tabled in my name and in the name of Mr Bowe .
These are the amendments passed by the industry committee .
The UN ceilings are quite ambitious enough for us to reach our internationally agreed targets in reasonable time .
The industry committee wishes to see these limits fully and properly implemented across the European Union and globally .
Support the Purvis amendments and the United Nations Gothenburg table of national emission ceilings .
Mr President , it has become universally acknowledged that environmental pollution , and certainly air pollution , are cross-border issues par excellence .
The present draft directive on national emission ceilings tackles the key culprits where atmospheric pollution is concerned .
It contains maximum emission levels for substances which are responsible for acidification , ozone forming in the troposphere and the eutrophication of soil .
As the topic is reasonably technical , I will only single out the salient points on behalf of myself and my group .
The directive ' s key goal is to reduce the emission levels of said substances to below the critical levels and , hence , pollution .
These goals must be met by 2010 , with an interim assessment of the national programmes in 2006 .
The most important - and you have heard so yourself just now - and most talked about component of the proposal is , of course , the table which specifies the permitted annual emission levels for each country .
The fact that , at UN level , 36 countries , including 15 EU Member States , recently agreed on less strict standards for the same substances played an important role in the discussion .
There are now Members who urge that this table , i.e. the European Commission ' s table , be replaced by the UN ' s so-called Gothenburg table , which permits a higher ceiling .
Mr President , I have to admit that this line of argument is rather weak .
Moreover , it is incorrect that the European ceilings were established after completion of the UN negotiations .
Mr President , I do have another problem , namely that concerning ammonia .
The Group of the European People ' s Party and European Democrats would like to see the present ceiling adjusted .
Looking at the nitrate directive , I notice that hardly any Member State meets the standard specified .
It seems to me completely unfeasible to go beyond the Gothenburg standard .
In addition , the effects of ammonia emissions are partly local and , as such , a lower threshold seems acceptable .
The reason for this is that I hope that , by then , the effects of the implementation and the pending European legislation on nitrate will be able to give us better indications .
I would like to conclude by making the following comment : legislation on ceilings is , in actual fact , the counterpart of legislation on large furnaces , for which I also happen to be rapporteur .
We completed the first reading even before last year ' s elections .
The Council of Ministers , however , is still putting a spanner in the works .
Could we be informed on the progress made ?
As a final remark , I would like to thank Mrs Myller , the rapporteur .
Mr President , I wish to begin by thanking Mrs Myller for her report and her ambitious treatment of the directive proposed by the Commission .
Instead , it has been with us for as long as industrialisation - for 100 years .
Research into the question has been going on for 30 years . None of us ought to be in any doubt about what the sources of acidification are , nor about what we should be doing regarding this issue .
Some accuse the Commission ' s proposal , and also the report , as being excessive and far too costly to implement and say that the calculations that have been made are utopian .
This is , however , wrong because we know that the Member States themselves have contributed to the report which serves as a basis for the whole directive .
If we had been a little quicker off the mark , the present directive would have been on the table - signed , sealed and delivered - long before the so-called Gothenburg Protocol .
The word " impossible " has been used about the directive . I should like to say , however , that what is impossible is the situation which we have at present .
The impossibility lies , therefore , not in the directive but in the current situation .
Mr President , my congratulations to Mrs Myller who I know has thought long and hard about this report .
It seems to me that the debate comes down to this : do we believe that the Gothenburg Protocol was the best Member States can realistically achieve ?
Some Member States seem to have gone into the negotiations with a few calculations on the back of an envelope and refused to compromise in any way to set themselves any realistic targets .
Others have not even used the same methodology , the same basis of calculation as others .
So the protocol in many ways is a nonsense .
It can give us no confidence whatsoever .
It is a messy political compromise and nothing more .
I do not know how much more the Commissioner can achieve but we should be seeking reductions in air pollution and we should be giving her our support in her efforts to negotiate them .
We should support this report and give her our backing .
Mr President , Mrs Myller has produced an excellent report , and our group too thinks we should go at lot further than the Gothenburg Protocol on this .
In all probability , drafting this directive was like a national auction , and the end result is very modest when we think what the real challenges are .
But , in any case , it is important that the European Parliament should now defend at least that policy which the Commission has chosen .
The Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance proposes that even stricter goals should be set for 2010 than the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy has recommended .
We want to emphasise that an integrated strategy must be adopted to reduce emissions .
We have to remember that , in any case , we have the implementation of the Kyoto commitments ahead of us , which will mean insisting on more efficient use of energy and simply using less of it .
So , in our opinion , this directive must take into consideration that added benefit is to be had from an integrated strategy as regards implementing its objectives .
Mr President , in order to meet the objectives for air emission levels prescribed in the Fifth Environmental Action Programme , we need this directive on emission ceilings more than anything .
If we want to combat acidification , manure pollution and smog formation , we need to reduce the emissions of sulphur dioxide , nitrogen oxide , ammonia and volatile organic substances .
The Council ' s conclusions concerning the EU acidification strategy have raised expectations which now have to be given substance .
This could even be done in a cost-effective way , as is evident from the explanatory note to the Commission proposal .
We all know by now that six months ago , higher emission levels were agreed at Gothenburg within a UN context .
These values , however , are the result of a political compromise between states , and the results of the model used by the Commission have been overlooked .
This model is sound and the results are well founded .
Also in view of the fact that , with these emission ceilings , the objectives of the EU ' s Fifth Environmental Action Programme still cannot be met , a relaxation of the values is unjustified .
The first step towards achieving the emission ceilings is undoubtedly a dynamic implementation and enforcement of existing directives , such as the Auto-oil programme .
In addition , we need to lay down new legislation in this field as soon as possible .
In this connection , I would once more urge the Council to produce a common position on large furnaces as a matter of urgency .
Finally , additional policy , for example in the field of volatile solvents used in paints and varnishes , as well as in car spraying , will continue to be necessary .
Mr President , Commissioner , firstly I too would like to thank the rapporteur .
Now to the issues : it is obvious that there are differing opinions in this House on whether the proposal of the European Commission is too ambitious .
Many are saying that it cannot be implemented using current technology or only at an exorbitant cost .
The Commission itself says that the proposal can be implemented cost effectively .
In my opinion this is not ambitious ; if anything , the opposite .
We in this House have always agreed that we must reduce the proportion of fossil fuels and that we must save energy .
If we do not achieve this , then this is a declaration of environmental bankruptcy .
If the perceptions of the European Commission as regards this basic assumption become reality , then there is no need for us to talk any further in this House about climate protection .
We must increase energy efficiency , improve energy saving and promote regenerative energies whilst , at the same time , recognising that nuclear energy produces neither CO2 nor SO2 nor NH3 , volatile organic compounds or NOx .
This cannot happen within the context of collective environmental responsibility .
All the same , I would like once again to stress the fact that the Commission proposal is not too ambitious , but if anything a little too unambitious .
I will support it tomorrow in the vote and I hope that the majority of the House will do the same .
Mr President , I certainly welcome this report and I gave it a lot of support in the Environment Committee .
I creates a proper framework in which we can work in the long term to reduce emissions .
The vast majority of the amendments I can support .
I want to come to the issue which Mr Davies has addressed , namely , where we should start from .
With what targets are we to start ?
It seems to me that the Commission figures are aspirational .
Yes , we could go there - we should be trying to go there , but I do not think we should be starting there .
We should be starting with the UN / ECE figures , with the Gothenburg protocol and revising them as is proposed by Mrs Myller in her report .
Mr President , Commissioner , I have , of course , nothing against the principle of the directive .
It is an important instrument for future environmental policy .
The Member States are given a clearer brief .
They know what they should be aiming for .
Upon examination of the table with the different ceilings for each Member State , however , I get the impression that there are double standards .
That is because a large country can use its better regions to offset its bad practices .
A small country is not in a position to do this .
I shall give you an example .
From your statistics and maps , it appears that in northern France , which is just as polluting and polluted as Belgium , matters can be processed at a lower level .
According to your calculations , the implementation of this directive costs each Belgian EUR 103 per annum , compared to EUR 15 for each person in France , including northern France .
That is eight times less . This is partly due to the fact that we are a small country and we are surrounded by polluters .
One per cent of the GDP per annum is too much of a strain for my country .
I would therefore ask you to give me your backing for Amendments Nos 16 and 17 , in which I request that the Belgian Government be given the chance to re-evaluate the situation based on the annual reports .
Mr President , the biggest environmental problem in my own country is the acidification of land , forests , lakes and watercourses .
Acidification leads to the death , or reduced growth , of forests and causes fish to die and fewer plants to grow .
Acidified water also releases heavy metals which constitute a health problem .
The countryside in the Nordic countries is particularly vulnerable to acidification because these countries are largely lacking in means to protect themselves against it .
Acidification occurs due to acid rain , caused by air polluting emissions produced by the burning of fossil fuels .
In Sweden and Finland , we have taken extensive measures in order to reduce national levels of air pollution .
We are making major efforts to add lime to lakes and wetlands .
We are , for the most part , complying with the emission targets proposed in the now current directive .
However , more than 80 per cent of the acid rain over our country comes from air pollution not in our own countries but in other West European countries .
We are therefore appealing for your help .
Many North Europeans believe that it is only through environmental cooperation with other EU countries that our problems with acidification can be solved .
To the members of the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy I want to say that the UN resolution in accordance with the Gothenburg Protocol is far from being adequate .
I am convinced that the EU can be better than the UN at solving the environmental problems in Europe .
The proposed EU directive against air pollution can , in fact , constitute an important step towards combating the acidification of the countryside , mainly in the northern area of the EU .
In addition , significant reductions in the percentages of unhealthy ground-level ozone , mainly in big cities in the southern part of the EU , can at the same time be attained .
We ought therefore to have a common interest in applauding the present EU draft directive .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , a fair wind is blowing the way of the environment and the European Parliament welcomes this .
Indeed , by virtue of an unusually fortunate coincidence , directives on waste incineration , on limit values for national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants , and ozone in ambient air all feature on today ' s agenda .
Previously , atmospheric pollution used to be associated with roads and traffic .
Today , however , on a large scale , it refers to the whole world , and on a small scale , it even means the house we live in .
In short , it means our whole ecosystem , and action must be taken .
Setting emission limits for the four main pollutants is a sure way to help to reduce pollution , combat acidification and limit the harmful effects of these pollutants on human health and on plant life .
In its proposal for a directive , the European Commission proposes quantified national emission ceilings , which must be met by 2010 for the four pollutants I have just mentioned .
Furthermore , it estimates the costs for each Member State of complying with these limits .
I think that this is a good strategy .
Mrs Myller ' s excellent report makes a lucid evaluation of the European Commission ' s proposal and considers it to be balanced ; the report also seeks to strengthen the proposal in some areas .
In particular , the committee approved a compulsory review of the directive by 2004 , which will enable there to be a review of the limit values stipulated and measures adopted to ensure that these limit values are respected .
All of this seems quite reasonable .
Nevertheless , I must ask a question here .
Would this not be wise ?
The EU system for combating atmospheric pollution is thus being extended , strengthened and refined .
EU environmental policy is becoming more and more the environmental policy of each Member State , with obvious advantages for all Europe ' s citizens .
However , I also understand those views that advocate electing the ceilings proposed under the Gothenburg Protocol .
It is important that the environmental objectives are achieved as cost-effectively as possible throughout the whole Community .
Air quality in Europe has improved considerably in recent years .
Emission levels have decreased significantly , at least in the energy sector , in transport and in industry .
In recent years , there have been more and more EU acts in the area of the environment and new targets have been set for industry .
Before further obligations are imposed it is important to ensure that the action that has already been agreed is implemented in the Member States in every respect .
These two goals are not , in my opinion , mutually exclusive .
Finally , I believe there should be international agreements on ceilings for emissions for shipping and aircraft , and , at this stage , they should not fall within the scope of the directive .
Mr President , honourable Members of Parliament , we have made great strides in tackling acidification and also pollution in recent years .
I hope that this proposal will be another important step in this direction and that is why I especially want to thank the rapporteur Mrs Myller for her valuable work .
The Gothenburg Protocol is a step forward .
However , it is nowhere near enough .
The protocol goes only halfway towards the goal for acidification already agreed by Parliament and the Council .
A substantial number of people will die early if we do not adopt the measures proposed by the Commission .
The protocol is the result of a process in which there is too little pressure on the reluctant to do what they should .
We cannot let this deflect the Community from agreed goals .
The costs of the Commission 's proposal must be kept in perspective , even on the Commission 's highly pessimistic estimate which would not take full account of Kyoto or non-technical solutions .
They amount to only 0.08 % of Community GDP in the year 2010 .
Member States will have to do some of the things that will let them meet proposed emissions ceilings more cheaply if they are to live up to their Kyoto commitments .
Saying that the ceilings are too difficult is dangerously close to ignoring Kyoto .
Let me now turn to the amendments .
The Commission can accept fully Amendments Nos 3 , 8 , 9 , 13 , 19 and 21 .
The Commission can accept in part the principle underlying Amendments Nos 1 and 2 .
We will draft a recital which does not appear to restrict the Commission 's right of initiative , for inclusion in our amended proposal .
We will also include a reference in Article 9 of the directive in order to make the new recital operational .
It follows that the Commission does not accept Amendment No 27 .
The aim of the Commission 's proposal is to leave as much flexibility as possible to Member States , but we cannot rule out further Community action if this would help Member States to meet emission ceilings more cost-effectively .
The Commission can also accept in part Amendment No 11 which would make further changes to Article 9 .
We agree that review of the legislation should take account of aircraft emissions , further emission reductions in regions bordering on the Community , measures taken in applicant countries and transport factors .
The Commission cannot however agree to bring forward the dates for reports to Parliament and Council .
In 2003 the Commission will have almost no data from Member States on which to report and base any decisions .
The Commission will not know in 2011 whether or not ceilings were met in 2010 because of the time that must be allowed for Member States to compile inventories .
We accept in part the principles underlying Amendment No 12 .
We will therefore redraft Article 9 ( 3 ) to incorporate much of the material in the proposed amendment .
The Commission accepts the principles of Amendment No 23 . The reference to countries outside the UN / ECE process must be restricted to those who have supplied data and whose emissions are relevant to pollution in the Community .
The Commission accepts Amendments Nos 24 , 25 and 26 in principle , and will also take them into account when it redrafts Article 9 as part of its amended proposal .
The Commission has a great deal of sympathy with the concerns underlying Amendments Nos 16 and 17 .
Allowance should be made for the fact that smaller Member States have less room to spread the load .
However we are dealing here with transboundary pollution , so the Commission considers that adjustments to ceilings for individual Member States can only be made as part of a general review of ceilings .
We will therefore propose a new recital and changes to Article 9 , which will ensure that effects on smaller Member States are properly taken into account on review .
The Commission can accept that part of Amendment No 20 that would insert " an appropriate " into Recital 9 .
We do not accept the remainder of Amendment No 20 .
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 15 , 28 , 29 and 32 .
They seek to replace emission ceilings that are designed to meet the agreed Community target for acidification , and to protect our citizens ' health , with the emission ceilings in the Gothenburg Protocol .
Gothenburg ceilings fall far short of what is needed as has already been said .
The Commission considers that , if Member States take seriously the Kyoto commitments , the emission ceilings that it has proposed will not be difficult to implement .
We may well be able to go further by 2010 , but this is something that can only be decided when we know how Member States will meet their Kyoto targets .
We cannot therefore accept Amendment No 31 .
The Commission cannot accept Amendments No 4 and 14 : under the principle of subsidiarity it is for Member States , not the Commission , to determine penalties for breaches of national legislation .
Furthermore , Amendment No 14 seeks to restrict the Commission 's discretion under the Treaty to decide when to bring infringement proceedings .
Amendments Nos 5 , 18 and 30 are also unacceptable .
The Commission is committed to pursuing long-term objectives for protection of the environment and human health , but we simply do not have enough information today to predict when long-term objectives might be reached .
The Commission must reject Amendment No 6 .
Emissions from international maritime traffic and cruising aircraft cannot be wholly controlled by individual Member States , nor even by Community action , and cannot therefore be included in national emission ceilings .
Action where appropriate must be taken in the International Maritime Organisation or the International Civil Aviation Organisation .
Last week , the IMO agreed to a proposal from the Community to declare the North Sea a sulphur dioxide control area .
The Commission will examine whether further such proposals should be made to the IMO , and whether international action is also needed on aircraft emissions .
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 7 .
It is based on a misleading comparison with the solvents directive , where processes may involve high temperatures .
Non-volatile organic compounds are automatically excluded from the definition of " volatile organic compound " in these proposals since they are not found in the air in ambient conditions and do not contribute to ozone formation .
The proposed definition is identical in the Gothenburg Protocol .
We must maintain technical consistency .
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 10 .
It would remove an essential obligation for Member States regularly to update emission inventories .
Finally , Mr President , we do not accept Amendment No 22 .
The Commission 's proposed wording on the key issue of public information is in line with agreements on the first two air quality daughter directives .
Finally , I should like to answer Mrs Oomen-Ruijten because she asked about the proposals on large combustion plants .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
Environmental legislation
Mr President , I would like , on behalf of the committee , to move at least one of the oral questions .
First of all , I sympathise with the Commissioner 's desire to get better implementation of European Union law .
That is something which the committee as a whole is keen to see .
I want to quote from an article in the United Kingdom Sunday Telegraph this last Sunday .
I would like to know if the Commission is making these threats and , if it is , whether it feels that it has an entitlement to do so .
That is a question which my German colleagues who are moving the other question want to follow up .
The Environment Committee is very interested in finding ways of incorporating environmental considerations into other policies .
The question is : is this a constitutionally viable way of doing that ?
What we are exploring here tonight in this crowded House is the question of linkage .
That is something which we find reflected in the views not only of some of the German Members here tonight but also in some of my British colleagues .
At its worst , we want to avoid the possibility that the aims of the structural funds and the European Union 's concern to protect its natural habitats may collide .
Such possibilities have arisen in the past , especially in relation to major infrastructure projects .
The fault lies with those Member States which have failed to observe the directive , and that includes my own .
If doubt hangs over their entitlement to structural funds , that is the fault of national governments .
That doubt has now fallen over the position of the United Kingdom and its entitlement to Structural Funds because the United Kingdom government has not fully implemented or complied with the provisions of the habitats directive .
It is in the power of the United Kingdom government , the German government and other national governments to remove that threat by complying with the habitats and birds directive .
Even if the European Commission uses its best efforts in the United Kingdom there is no guarantee that the scrooge-like United Kingdom Chancellor will find matching funding .
Mr President , the FFH directive is an issue which has concerned us for some time now and we are currently experiencing a few teething problems .
However , to begin let me say the following : the FFH directive is an important directive and creates a new climate in Europe for the protection of nature , the environment and birds .
I would not want to change or spare anything in achieving this .
I also find it encouraging that the Commission is consequently taking care that EU legislation is being implemented .
All the same , in the case of the FFH directive the question arises as to whether the legislation which we have adopted is actually implementable and I can see obvious weak points .
As I see it , the FFH directive is an instance where the legislation is not matched to the feasibilities of the regions .
Revision of the FFH directive , including the current difficulties in implementation , should not , I think be excluded .
Alongside this general criticism of the FFH directive , however , I also see a particular problem with the amalgamation of the EU environmental and structural policies .
To date , the Commission has only threatened sanctions in the case of the FFH directive .
Does it also intend to initiate sanction mechanisms in the other areas ?
In my opinion , this is a very problematic course of action .
The EU has a quite different means of enforcing sanctions , i.e. the European Court of Justice .
The possible cutting or withholding of money from the Structural Fund is a form of sanction whose effect on the regions concerned cannot just be disregarded .
What will happen with projects which are already under way and what will happen , above all , in those cases where a region does not receive any money from the Structural Fund ?
What sanctions will the Commission then impose for non-implementation of EU environment law ?
I would ask that we make this point absolutely clear here .
At the moment , I am more interested in protected areas for delegates , but that is another matter .
Our question to you , Commissioner , has another purpose .
I would have liked to hear your answer first , but you have chosen to speak at the end of the debate .
We are discussing something here of which most know the history .
The fauna-flora-habitats legislation should have been implemented by 1994 - it is now the year 2000 .
The European Union list of the relevant nature conservation sites should have been ready in 1998 - it is now the year 2000 .
The Member States should have notified the Commission of their sites by 1995 - it is now the year 2000 .
Many Member States , including my own , did not do as required .
Germany , for example , implemented the legislation in 1998 instead of 1994 - only four years late .
But what does it matter ? !
As a result , the European Union list is obviously not ready .
And how could it be ?
Many Member States and many regions have not announced their sites .
Now Mr Schnellhardt has even suggested that perhaps we made a mistake with the fauna-flora-habitats directive .
Perhaps , Mr Schnellhardt , you are right that it wasn ' t totally practical , it wasn ' t perfect , it wasn ' t quite right .
Unfortunately , however , it is not the procedure in the European Union that if you don ' t like a piece of legislation you don ' t bother observing it .
If that were the case , then there would also be areas and matters which you and I would not like .
But we do have this unfortunate system in the European Union - what you call legal certainty .
We do have this unfortunate system - it is what you call legislation , which has been adopted in this European Parliament with the consent of the Member States .
It must be observed !
It might perhaps be a bit too strict and too legalistic , but that ' s the way it is : we are living in a European Union with a legal system .
However , I do not want to pass sentence on Mr Schnellhardt , who comes from one of the new federal states who do not have things quite so good .
That is an internal German problem which we will resolve at another time and in another place in the House .
Today , Mr President , we are talking about the fact that Europe is losing its countryside and about the fact that Europe must observe legal certainty .
You must do it !
If you think the legislation is no good , let us revise it .
If you think it is sound , go to the European Court of Justice , and be quick about it !
Mr President , it is a pleasure to face the Commissioner for the fifth time today at this unearthly hour .
I congratulate her for her efforts in trying to make sure that the habitats directive and associated directives are properly implemented .
I wish her well .
I have heard that some in the Commission believe that they have managed to squeeze more out of Member States in the past six months than they had in the previous six years .
If that is the case then it is good news indeed .
But the Commissioner is riding between two horses : one seeks to protect endangered species , the other seeks to assist the poorest parts of Europe .
In fact , it is a position in which I too find myself to some extent .
Some simple questions : how long is the Commissioner prepared to perform this balancing act ?
Just how much must Member States do to meet her requirements ?
Is she really prepared to tell people such as those whom I represent in Merseyside and the North-West of England that they must lose Structural Funds because their governments have failed to comply with the habitats directive ?
That is the balance I suppose .
- The question on how the Structural Funds respect our environmental legislation is a critical one and I appreciate the interest expressed in this matter by Mrs Jackson , Mr Poettering and Mrs Schnellhardt .
We had a discussion on this subject in the Commission meeting today particularly as regards the link to the habitats and the birds directives .
The main principle is clear : the actions cofinanced under the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund should contribute to the protection and improvement of the environment in the European Union .
This is confirmed in the new regulatory framework for the Structural Funds and Cohesion Fund and in the Commission 's related guidelines .
We should remember that both the Cohesion Fund and the Structural Funds finance important investments into environmental infrastructure such as waste water treatment facilities or waste management systems .
Let me make one thing clear first to avoid misunderstandings .
The general regulation on the Structural Funds states that ' operations financed must be in conformity with the provisions of the Treaty , with instruments adopted under it and with Community policies and actions ' .
Contrary to the suggestion in one of the oral questions , this does not represent a new obligation on the Member States .
In fact , it is based closely on the previous framework regulation on the Structural Funds for the programming period 1994-1999 .
The Structural Funds Regulation has been approved by the Member States and the Council .
This is what we confirmed in the Commission this afternoon , and Michel Barnier will set out our decisions in a letter to the Member States in a few days .
In this regard , the Commission intends to use all the possibilities offered by the new regulatory framework for the Cohesion and Structural Funds .
The Commission will then use all the means at its disposal to ensure that commitments entered into the programming documents are fully respected .
It intends to monitor the situation in the Member States , including the use of on-the-spot checks .
The Commission 's representative in the monitoring committee for each programme will also seek to ensure that Member States ' obligations with regard to Natura 2000 are fully respected .
In addition , should a Member State not honour its commitment to provide the lists under the habitats and birds directives within the timeframe set in the programming documents , the Commission will take immediate action .
This includes in particular excepting specific situations and with respect to the principle of proportionality - possible recourse to the provisions of the Structural or Cohesion Fund regulations in relation to the suspension of payments .
Of course , all this is in addition to the ongoing infringement procedures against a number of Member States for their failure to implement these directives .
We will use the means at our disposal to ensure that they honour the commitments that they have entered into .
Without the lists neither the Member States nor the Commission can ensure that we protect important nature sites when carrying out Structural Fund operations , for the simple reason that we do not know where these sites are .
One more word on the habitats directive .
The Commission does not agree that there is a lack of clarity in this directive .
The directive is intended to establish a frame of reference which , in accordance with the subsidiarity principle , leaves the detailed implementation to the Member States .
While the Commission has no plans to revise the directive , its services are ready to provide guidance to the Member States on its implementation and we are finally starting to move on this .
The only sites which the Commission takes into account under the habitats directive are those put forward by the authorities in the Member States .
So-called shadow lists can only help in efforts to identify sites inside the Member States .
At Community level , they can contribute to scientific reference material in the creation of inventories of natural habitats and existing species .
You are now going back on that principle ; you are going back to the Member States to ask them to provide the lists .
They are seriously late . They have completely failed to meet the requirements of the European directives .
So , today , it is still not clear to us whether you intend to utilise the technical , legal and political means available to you in order to enforce European directives .
From reading the various reports of the European Union , and the European Environment Agency , it is clear that environmental damage is still continuing .
The question I am asking , then , is as follows : today , when accepting the draft Community support framework for Portugal , did you demand the list of protected sites under the terms of the directives ?
Mr President , my first report as an MEP was on precisely the same topic as that which we are discussing here today : the environment and the Structural Funds .
I still believe this today ; our main objective must always be sustainable development , i.e. development which respects and promotes the environment .
At the same time , however , we should avoid over-reacting . We should not suspend all the programmes or refuse to approve any of them just because we cannot guarantee that the odd regulation will be upheld .
This reminds me of a Greek proverb : you cannot chop off your head just because you have tooth ache .
I am not suggesting that we contravene legislation .
Rather , I am suggesting that we go ahead and implement the programmes and , at the same time , monitor the implementation of legislation and ensure that the Commission keeps Parliament informed .
We should also bear in mind , Mr President , that measures promoting the environment are often financed by the Structural Funds .
If we were to suspend all the programmes without exception for the reason given by a number of speakers here , we would be doing our environment more harm than good .
Mr President , there is no disagreement on the fact that we want to comply with this piece of legislation .
I was surprised to see you quoted in my press as threatening to cut off European funding .
I consider that to be a disproportionate action for what we are trying to achieve .
You will know that in the case of the UK , at a moderation seminar , the Commission agreed a timetable to allow for review and inclusion of additional sites .
In Paris a timetable was set to allow for a revised list to be presented in July with another moderation in October 2000 .
This process is ongoing and I have no reason to believe that any plans submitted for regional funding breached the EU habitats and wild bird directives at this stage .
Therefore , I fail to understand or accept the linkage that is trying to be established through this resolution .
But let us be clear .
We therefore need to have a balanced relationship between means and ends .
In the final analysis any breach of EU legislation must actually go the European Court of Justice .
I cannot accept that such a balance means the cutting off of vital lifelines of EU funds to the poorest and neediest regions .
Commissioner Barnier probably said to you today , Commissioner Wallstrm , that all European programmes should be able to start without undue delay because it can be extremely difficult to make up for lost time later on .
I therefore ask the Commissioner to take collective responsibility for ensuring that Structural Fund programmes are implemented in time .
That is your responsibility as a member of the college .
Unlike the last speaker I would like to congratulate you , Commissioner , on your threat to cut off European funding .
It should not just be an idle threat .
You should carry it out if Member States do not act responsibly .
I come from a Member State which benefits from European funding but I am appalled at its track record on the implementation of the wild birds directive , on the habitats directive and many other directives .
We are , per capita , the worst country as regards complaints .
It is about time the European Commission took action and decided that if you are not willing to abide by the rules then the funding has to be cut off .
If this affects my own country , then so be it .
Member States have to comply with European regulations .
You must stick to that .
If Member States are not willing to comply with the directives , cut off the funding .
I would support you one hundred percent .
On the other hand , we spend a third of our resources on the Structural Funds , but the projects funded under those funds are the first to contravene directives on habitats .
Portugal is a perfect example of what I have just been talking about , and as it is a perfect example , it merits a thorough explanation .
In other words , the Portuguese sites that already form part of the Natura 2000 network are completely at the mercy of unscrupulous groups of financiers and construction companies , because of the lack of instruments to protect them .
The most serious case is that of the tourist development that has been approved for the Abano area of the Sintra-Cascais national park , and I call on the Commission to intervene in this as a matter of urgency .
Unfortunately , what is happening in Portugal is not unique - it is merely a good example .
I therefore hope that the Commission will bring its legal authority to bear and refuse to approve any funding for the third Community support framework until Member States send in their lists for the Natura 2000 network .
Sustainable development is supposed to be about integrating economic development with environmental concerns .
That is what the EU has signed up to in countless treaties from the Rio Earth Summit onwards .
That is what Article 6 of our own EC Treaty obliges us to do - to integrate those policies .
At the heart of this debate is the issue of economic development coming right up against environmental constraints .
We are going to be increasingly faced with hard decisions on this .
It will be a very good test of what our commitment to sustainable development really means .
At a recent plenary session , we talked a lot about coherence in EU policies .
Members from all over this House were rightly emphasising how important policy coherence is , yet here we have an outstanding example of policy incoherence .
That is why the Greens are supporting very strongly this resolution from the Environment Committee .
Mr President , Commissioner , I have listened to your address very carefully , but I have not fully understood it .
I will read the communication from the Commission very carefully , but perhaps you can help me to understand matters .
Are you of the opinion that the Commission can block entire approvals for plans , or is it just payment of funds for individual projects ?
That was not at all clear .
Let me say two or three things .
Firstly , I think that Community law must be seen as a whole .
Community law provides that if a Member State fails to implement legislation , or implements it incorrectly , the State will be brought to justice .
You should do that !
You should not try to achieve through the back door , through the non-payment of money , what you are unable to achieve through legal action and orderly process .
This is something which I do not think is quite right .
If you are saying that Member States are contravening Community law , breaching Community law , then bring these Member States to justice !
Secondly , Commissioner , the Structural Funds are not given out to damage the countryside .
They are given out to create jobs and to kick-start the regions .
We must not therefore , in order to achieve another objective , obstruct or abandon the original aim of supporting disadvantaged areas .
What is more , it should not be the case that one Commissioner sets himself up as some sort of Supreme Commissioner who can then dictate to the other .
None of us want anything for the environment to be left undone .
But it isn ' t on , Mr President , Commissioner , that regions might suffer because Member States are failing in their duties !
Here too we must watch out !
Mr President , I believe the issue of ensuring integrated and correct implementation of the Community ' s environmental policy is perhaps the greatest challenge facing the Member States today .
Unfortunately , however , the requirements of environmental policy are not being respected and are not being properly incorporated when programmes and projects are formulated and approved in the Member States .
I should just like to draw your attention to paragraph b and point 3 and 8 of the resolution which takes account of precisely this issue .
It is absurd for EU environmental legislation not to be applied or respected for all projects in the Member States , irrespective of whether they require Community or some other type of funding .
This flagrant violation of our basic environmental laws must not be allowed to continue .
We need , once and for all , to come out and say what is happening in the Member States , because transparency , courage and the truth are the best policy .
And the truth is that the directives for the Natura 2000 network have been inadequately implemented both in my country and in other Member States .
Mr President , I cannot resist starting by saying it is well-known that my Irish colleague across the way lives in the capital city of Dublin where these sites will not be troubling her too much .
No Member State has fully met the requirements of the habitats directive , for example , let alone met them within the legally-binding timetable .
Commission procedures are under way against nearly every Member State - 12 Member States in fact - under the habitats directive at the moment .
Twelve European countries are before the European Court .
The wild birds directive is little better with 13 countries currently facing a legal challenge for failure to comply with the directive 20 years after it was agreed .
Constitutional challenge is often quoted in Ireland as one of our reasons .
Indeed our written constitution with protection for property rights has proved very difficult for the government to get over many of the issues in relation to designation of sites .
But with the principle of proportionality well respected , proposals to use the structural funds in this regard will help countries like Ireland to focus on what they actually need to do .
Perhaps you will take those on board in items 2 and 3 of the motion .
Mr President , Commissioner , implementation of the flora-fauna-habitats directive is causing quite a stir in many regions and also running into major difficulties .
Vaguely formulated application criteria are also the cause of the nine-year plus delay in implementation .
In my home region , a dialogue was begun prior to identification of the FFH sites .
The process brought the following problems to light in particular .
Small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises are experiencing a restriction in the utilisation and cultivation of arable and grazing land as a result of the directive .
This means indirectly a reduction in the value of this land .
In municipal areas the directive in its current form is leading to the obstruction of important infrastructure measures .
Without any doubt , this cannot be in the interests of the Commission .
It would be sensible to re-examine and revise Directive 9243 to provide more certainty and clarity .
Citizens have the right to know the consequences which they can expect .
Before notifying a site an owner must know which conservation objectives will be achieved using which measures .
For this reason , I ask that you support the amendment which I have tabled jointly with Mr Schnellhardt .
Ladies and gentlemen , I would like to make a few final comments .
This is not about the implementation of the habitats directive .
Remember that the directive is not an effort directive , it is a result directive .
This is about meeting our obligations under the Structural Funds regulation and without these lists we cannot ensure that we protect important natural sites during Structural Funds operations .
That is what this is about .
If for example in a country which we have discussed today there are 40 projects currently under way that would affect sites to be protected , how can we check that if we have not got the lists ?
It is the obligation of the Commission to ensure that these sites are protected .
So does this mean that we will not approve the operational programmes to answer your question ?
We are reasonable .
That is a clear timetable .
If they do not do so , we will launch the procedure for suspending payments without delay .
That is the decision we have taken today .
To make it very clear also to Mrs Isler Beguin that means that what was written in the common letter by Mrs Bjerregaard and Mrs Wulf-Mathies is still valid .
We have to understand that this is an opportunity for us to live up to our obligations under the regulations for the Structural Funds .
This will be a very important tool .
Of course , we hope that this will not be necessary because the Member States will provide us with their lists .
That is what we have to hope for and maybe pray for too .
I have received one motion for resolution pursuant to Rule 40 ( 5 ) .
The debate is closed .
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon .
( The sitting was closed at 12.09 a.m. )
Mrs Maes has the floor for a point of order .
Maes ( Verts / ALE ) .
( NL ) Mr President , Parliament has been informed of some correspondence between Mr Prodi and Mrs Fontaine , in her capacity as President of this Parliament .
In his letter , he levelled heavy criticism at our Committee on Budgetary Control regarding the way it carries out its function .
We have not received a reply from Mrs Fontaine yet , but you will understand - and your presidency will feel the same - that this letter has caused a great deal of consternation , to put it mildly .
Mr Prodi has also written a letter to Mr Sderman in which he criticised the way in which Mr Sderman thinks he should exercise his duties .
Mr Sderman has replied to this letter , and we do have this reply .
We would like to know how the presidency has dealt with this correspondence .
Mrs Maes , the issue you have raised will be studied by the Presidency and the Conference of Presidents immediately .
50th anniversary of the Geneva Convention - humanitarian law
The next item is the Council statement on the 50th anniversary of the Geneva Convention - humanitarian law .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , just a few months ago we marked the 50th anniversary of the Geneva Conventions on the protection of victims of armed conflicts .
Fifty years ago , 63 countries signed the four conventions and two protocols which still provide a basis for international humanitarian rights today .
Events since that time have demonstrated that those who considered it essential to strengthen the rights of individuals in war zones , including civilians and military personnel not directly involved in the conflict , were totally justified .
We are still continuing to witness acts of war marked by barbarism and a total denial of the rights of civilians and of military personnel outside combat zones .
The behaviour of many states and many parties to armed conflicts fails to reflect any principles whatsoever and is characterised by an " end justifies the means " approach .
And it is not unusual for civilians to be the particular target of military action , either in the form of terrorism or as an instrument of political pressure .
In cases of this kind , acts affecting more vulnerable social groups take on a particular importance and are even more shocking .
It is important to carry on strengthening these organisations ' freedom of action and the protection of humanitarian workers .
In this context , I would particularly like to draw attention to the International Committee of the Red Cross , whose reports demonstrate that specific action is needed to improve the way in which the Geneva Conventions are applied .
In the context of its external relations , the Union promotes these values and seeks to implement them at all times through its political actions .
We are therefore alert to any risk of weakening the principles that unite us in this area , and we have always denounced any violations through our common foreign and security policy .
In such cases we seek to use the instruments available to us to exert pressure in a timely and effective way .
We are aware that in many cases we have not achieved everything we might wish , but we firmly intend to continue in future with the same determination .
This hope is primarily founded on gradually establishing an international set of values which means that it is already becoming difficult to take refuge behind spurious criteria such as cultural differences and national traits .
These people must start to realise that the world is no longer a place where impunity is the rule .
If we can get this message across , we will certainly be helping to strengthen human rights and to give the principles which the Geneva Conventions and their protocols aim to protect the credibility and effectiveness that they need .
The more suffering we prevent , the less action we will then have to take to repair the great damage caused by war .
What more can be done therefore to increase compliance with international humanitarian law and thus limit the suffering of the victims ?
For example , we can spread the knowledge of this law , particularly throughout society itself , amongst young people , within mass organisations and also in the armed forces and security services .
Above all , we must , through education , instil a passion for peace amongst our citizens .
Amongst these organisations , we should highlight the International Committee of the Red Cross .
All the institutions of the European Union must decisively support the work of the ICRC , because their role is quite simply indispensable .
For all these reasons , Mr President , I ask you to support the resolution tabled , which contains all the main elements of the proposal presented by the Socialist Group at the end of last year .
Mr President , 12 August 1949 is a day which the ancient Romans would have said should be marked with a red stone .
We have failed to spread the lessons and values learned from that conflict .
We have failed to educate against the glorification of combat in our own communities .
We have failed to educate against the problems and the scourge of racism and xenophobia .
Yet , thanks to global communications , we have a constant reminder now on our television screens of the terrible effects of man 's inhumanity to man , and of course to woman and child .
We need to be pushing for the creation of a permanent international criminal court and urging our own Member States to sign and ratify the Convention .
We need to be working hard to combat racism and xenophobia .
Mr President , I am in sincere agreement with what was said in the previous speech .
Yesterday , we were talking about a Charter of Fundamental Rights ; today we are speaking of human rights .
Yesterday , in one excellent speech , someone said that we have a moral obligation to defend and develop democracy and human rights .
What this moral obligation actually entails and the extent of our efforts and commitment will , however , come to light in the context of that wretched reality represented by wars and armed conflicts .
Over the last century , these have totally changed in nature .
Humanitarian law is that yardstick by which we can show whether that moral obligation is just some kind of rhetorical stimulus for us or something that leads to deeds and action .
Today we are hearing the case of Albin Kurti , of Kosovo .
The Geneva Conventions are a vital part of this minimum level of action .
We also have to ensure that both the Ottawa Convention against Land Mines and the Charter for an International Criminal Court are ratified .
Mr President , a European delegation returning from Chechnya a few days ago reported terrible sights .
We must ask for some consistency between the countries of Europe if we want to make a genuine stand for human rights .
Mr President , I would like to start by apologising for the absence of Lord Bethell , our first speaker .
He must be held up somewhere for he is usually very conscientious .
As he was not here this morning , I will , in effect , be taking over his task of first speaker .
Mr President , I would like to thank you for the declaration by the Portuguese presidency and also for the Commission ' s declaration .
I would also like to congratulate the Portuguese presidency because once again , it appears that it attended virtually all important debates this week .
Not all presidencies do this but the Portuguese do , and I think , therefore , that they deserve a compliment for this .
Mr President , the Geneva Convention is more topical than ever , especially in light of the events of the past couple of years .
In Kosovo , hundreds of thousands of people have been forced out of their homes because they belonged to the wrong ethnic group .
The same has happened in the rest of former Yugoslavia since the early nineties .
Never again . This is what politicians decided in post-war Europe .
And this is how European cooperation and the Geneva Convention came about .
For a long time , we thought that Europe would remain spared of this kind of adversity and that we had sufficient instruments in place to prevent this kind of brutal disaster .
This appeared not to be the case .
Yugoslavia proved that Europe will remain vulnerable as long as the Union limits itself in scope to Western Europe .
The task of the European Union is therefore to extend the system we have created to the whole of Europe , above all with a view to keeping the peace .
It is just as important to look at the world around us . Take Chechnya , where the population is the victim of a battle between the Russian army and terrorists .
Or Asia , Burma , in particular , where entire groups of the population are being driven out of their traditional areas with military force .
Indonesia , Timor , but also the Moluccas , where hundreds of thousands of people are forced out of their homes with the active backing of the army - yet again .
Sudan , where the southern population has been on the run from the northern rulers for years and where martial law is ignored .
The Great Lake areas in Africa where the fight between the Hutus and the Tutsis , an ethnic battle if ever I saw one , has forced millions of people to flee .
They are increasingly beleaguered rather than being protected by the national army units .
Nobody seems to be taking any notice of this problem .
This is only an outline of the problems , both within Europe and elsewhere , which occasioned the drafting of the Geneva Convention .
The fiftieth anniversary of the Geneva Convention has actually been written in blood if we consider these fateful events .
At the same time , the Geneva Convention is also a beacon because we now have a tool by means of which we can expose inhumanities and because we can also report on positive developments .
One of these positive developments is the European Union itself where - to quote President Mitterrand , who spoke here - after 400 years of war , we have enjoyed more than 40 years ' peace .
Prominent politicians , some of whom , in fact most of whom , come from within our circles , have helped to bring this about .
We recently witnessed a huge humanitarian disaster brought about by a supposedly humanitarian intervention .
Nearly 50 % of infants born prematurely die .
The children being born are underdeveloped due to malnutrition .
There has been a dramatic increase in the number of abortions .
Women are dying due to a lack of rudimentary medical care in clinics which have no electricity , heating or water .
Mr President , the symbol of the Red Cross / Red Crescent movement brings hope to battlefields worldwide .
Perhaps I could be allowed a special reason for celebrating these conventions , as one of my family members founded the British Red Cross movement .
Article 1 ( b ) of the relevant Convention forbids the taking of hostages .
Article 23 of the Universal Islamic Declaration of Human Rights says that no one shall be forced to leave the country of his residence or be arbitrarily deported therefrom .
Millions of people are suffering worldwide .
Speakers today , from Graham Watson onwards , have made those points earlier .
But let us think just of a few people in order to bring home the horror and suffering .
We recall that on 20 August 1990 Iraq invaded Kuwait in a unilateral act of aggression that was universally condemned .
Nine years later , more than 600 prisoners of war are unreleased and unaccounted for by Iraq .
Iraq is a formidable enemy .
Her strength and power for evil purposes is matched only by her determination not to find the missing prisoners .
After nine years she has only provided information sufficient to close three files .
This afternoon , when we debate Iraq , do not forget the missing Kuwaiti prisoners of war .
Do not lift economic sanctions while their fate remains uncertain .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , members of the Commission , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , I can only applaud the Council ' s presence in this debate .
I echo without hesitation the encouraging words which the President-in-Office has just spoken . However , I need to get something off my chest .
This , I deeply regret .
However , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , I would like to use this opportunity to bring to your attention once more the fate of the Kosovar prisoners in Serbian prisons .
Parliament has brought the fate of these prisoners to the public ' s attention three times since our appointment in July and has also asked the Council to act in this matter .
The situation in Kosovo has got considerably worse , not least because the Albanians are concerned about the fate of their fellow countrymen in Serbian prisons .
The situation in Serbia is becoming more and more absurd .
Last Monday , the Albanian student leader , Albin Kurti , was sentenced to fifteen years ' imprisonment , simply because he had organised first-aid courses after the bombardments .
This was considered helping the UCK !
Surely this is too absurd for words !
Meanwhile , the population remains very concerned about the fate of those in prison .
There are reports of torture .
The Milosevic regime is also stepping up the repression of Serbia ' s own opposition .
Mr President-in-Office , could I ask you once more to act upon the resolutions which this Parliament has adopted three times and may I ask you what you intend to do ?
Mr President , human rights are individual rights which have found their way into national constitutions and international agreements as universal and inalienable rights or standards .
They include the right to personal and political freedom and basic social and economic rights .
The idea of human rights is one of the most exalted ideas which mankind has ever had and has its roots in the concentration camps and gulags of the last century .
It appeals to everything which makes man a human being and which makes him aware of his dignity , uniqueness , freedom and equality with other men .
The way in which human rights have spread illustrates the fact that this human image has huge powers to project and concern for human dignity is at the core of any human rights policy .
50 years after the general declaration of human rights , there is still a huge gap between what we claim and what is real .
Respect for human rights is extremely important on both moral and political grounds .
There is a vicious circle .
Lasting economic success is impossible without respect for human rights and without the guarantees of the rule of law and the constitutional state .
Failure to respect human rights brings the threat of both strife and economic and social decline .
And if the development spiral turns downwards , then human rights are dragged down with it .
Respect for human rights is fundamental if conflict is to be prevented and peace consolidated .
Trampling over human rights today paves the way for conflict tomorrow .
Governments held to democratic account generally take more trouble over the welfare of their people .
Here the promotion of democracy is the first rule , combined with principles of tolerance and pluralism ; not a pluralism which is free from values , but a pluralism geared precisely towards these human rights .
It makes no difference if people are destroyed in the name of a race or a class .
There is no political excuse for oppressing people , be it from an extreme right-wing or an extreme left-wing point of view .
In a globalised world , human rights are no longer an internal affair and the general acknowledgement of the globalisation of human rights therefore needs to be strengthened further .
Human rights are indivisible .
The universality of human rights shows that the degree to which they are applied has become a measure of progress , civilisation and culture in politics and society .
As a global actor , the European Union must take greater account of human rights , both at home and abroad , in the form of a stronger human rights policy .
It must prove itself to be a community of values .
It must act preventatively within the scope of its foreign and security policy and its development policy and must react by applying sanctions , for example , by suspending assistance .
In this respect , a global human rights policy is increasingly becoming a central aspect of foreign policy .
But more responsible human rights policies need to start at home .
This means that democrats must stand together in fundamental consensus against any form of extremism , not only against right-wing , but also against left-wing extremists .
I agree with Mr Martnez when he stressed the importance of providing adequate protection and support for victims .
However we must also take action to ensure that there are fewer victims in the future .
The one sure way to achieve this is to send a clear message to those who are guilty of crimes against humanity that they will be brought to justice for their evil deeds .
The tribunals in which those guilty of atrocities in the Balkans are currently on trial send one clear message .
Furthermore , although it ended in something of a fiasco , the Pinochet case in the UK had positive aspects to it .
The groundbreaking ruling by the House of Lords illustrates one way in which concerned countries can demonstrate to those that commit crimes against humanity that there will be no hiding place for them .
However welcome some of these developments may be , more needs to be done .
They must be built upon and the establishment of the International Criminal Court was a significant development in the field of human rights .
However , it will symbolise little more than a statement of platitudes and empty rhetoric unless its Statute comes into force .
Ratification by sixty Member States is required to achieve this and of the seven that have done so I regret to say that only one is from the EU , namely Italy .
They must ratify the Rome Statute and you should use whatever influence you have elsewhere in the world to achieve that magic target of sixty to ensure that the statute of the International Criminal Court comes into force .
- ( DA ) Mr President , I completely support the Council ' s statement to the effect that the Geneva Conventions have been a very important stage in the development of humanitarian legislation .
I also agree that the conventions are just as necessary today as they were 50 years ago .
In my view , there are at present two main problems connected with the Geneva Conventions .
First of all , there is a gulf between the principles and their observance and , secondly , there are crucial states of affairs which are not covered by the conventions .
That is essentially the reverse of the situation during the First World War .
The widening gulf between principles and practice is due , in my opinion , to the fact that the character of wars has changed during the last 50 years .
More and more wars are fought under conditions of anarchy in which there are no stable structures and in which the areas hit by war are not controlled by any government .
The world has also witnessed a growing number of wars in which weapons have deliberately been aimed at civilians and the purpose of which has been to annihilate specific groups in society .
In these situations , humanitarian aid to victims is naturally unwelcome , and this leaves the world in a terrible dilemma .
The second problem is that the Geneva Conventions do not adequately deal with the activities of those who intervene for humanitarian reasons .
Even though the Geneva Conventions contain provisions concerning the right to provide humanitarian aid in crisis situations , it is also laid down that this right requires the consent of the government in the country concerned .
This is especially the case if it is a question of internal conflicts .
This is a serious breach of the humanitarian principle and is , in some cases , a fatal shortcoming which is responsible for many war victims .
It was precisely this question of providing normal access to humanitarian organisations that was the focal point of my visit to Chechnya at the beginning of February .
In my view , the question of to what extent circumstances require a revision of the Geneva Conventions , and what form this should take , is now an important one .
I believe we have two options which are not mutually exclusive .
The first is to change the conventions so that they are better placed to tackle complex contemporary crises , for example by establishing the right to provide humanitarian aid to those in need .
The other option is to ensure that the humanitarian principles established in the Geneva Conventions are in actual fact observed , for example , by improving the mechanisms for enforcing them .
But allow me to say clearly that I am wholeheartedly in favour of establishing the principle of humanitarian access in all situations and of reinforcing the right of those in distress to receive humanitarian aid .
With regard to the other option - that of securing better observance of the existing principles - I think that prosecuting offenders is one of the most promising options to be pursued .
The obligation upon States to proceed against war criminals is established in the Geneva Conventions , but that is clearly not enough .
I therefore wholeheartedly support the demand for prompt ratification of the statute of the International Criminal Court .
This demand has also been put forward here today .
On behalf of the Commission , I want to give my support to the view that we ought to work together on bringing this task to a satisfactory conclusion and turning it into legal reality .
Thank you very much , Mr Nielson .
I have received 4 motions for resolutions in accordance with Rule 37 ( 2 ) .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place on Thursday .
Human rights , racism , xenophobia and antisemitism
The next item is the joint debate on :
Mr President , it has now been 50 years since we adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights .
After the horrors of the Second World War , many surely felt a strong sense of hope for a better world and a more humane future .
Unfortunately , these hopes have , in many respects , been dashed .
A large proportion of the world 's population is still living under oppression , with many deprived of their basic rights .
We read daily of gross violations of human rights on grounds of gender , religion , ethnic origin , political views , sexual orientation etc .
The European Community was formed in order to prevent the atrocities of the Second World War from occurring again .
The EC became more than just an economic union ; it became an important common value-system based precisely on the respect for human rights .
Both internal work and foreign policy rest on this principle .
The European Parliament has always considered the promotion of these rights to be one of its most important tasks . This work has become even more important as time has gone by .
No one can fail to appreciate the commitment found , for example , in this House .
In many respects , the EU has a good policy on human rights but , unfortunately , it is much too ' straggly ' and incoherent .
The EU is therefore in desperate need of a coordinated , strategic and consistent policy in this area .
The Council 's report that came out in October last year was a good first step .
This was a welcome report which Parliament had waited many years for , and which we hope to see more of .
It is important , but it contains several deficiencies and needs to be supplemented .
In my opinion some of these deficiencies are linked to structural barriers and precisely this lack of a common strategy within the EU in the area of human rights .
We need increased coordination , not just between the institutions of the EU , but also between the EU and the Member States .
Human rights must be integrated into the EU 's activities naturally : in aid , in trade , in economic , cultural and political cooperation .
We need a consistent policy that is credible and predictable .
The EU must speak with one voice and give consistent signals to the countries that violate human rights .
There must be no doubt about what the EU stands for .
Certain basic rights are universal .
Violations of these can therefore never be excused on grounds of religion , culture or tradition .
Serious violations , which are specified in international conventions cannot - must not - be treated as internal matters .
Therefore , I want to encourage the Council to draw up a strategy for improving the work and making it better defined and hopefully more successful .
A few suggestions that may be included in such a strategy are , for example , that the Council could develop its own human rights indicators that could be used in connection with trade agreements .
These clauses can be used constructively , but they need to be more closely defined with respect to application , implementation and sanctions .
We could also form an advisory group containing representatives from the different EU institutions .
They could meet on a regular basis to discuss the promotion of human rights in the short and long term .
There ought to be experts in the EU 's delegations in third countries .
We must work more systematically to collect and evaluate data , information and background material . We need an early warning system for violations of human rights .
I would also like to say a few words about women 's rights , an issue that I have chosen as a special theme in the report .
The Commission declared 1999 to be the year for combating violence against women .
It was a praiseworthy initiative , but the campaign was discreet to say the least .
We need long-term work , not occasional campaigns .
Women 's rights are being systematically violated throughout the world .
Reports abound on violence in the home , rapes , ritual violence and maltreatment in prisons .
During the 1990s , rape was used systematically as an act of war in many armed conflicts .
This can now be a matter for examination in the International Criminal Court .
Rape is at present the world 's most common crime of violence .
Reports from the UN claim that , every year , more women die from the effects of violence in the home than as a result of traffic accidents , malaria , cancer or war put together .
The trade in women and children is increasing at an alarming rate .
In certain countries , the governments are employing a pure apartheid policy against women .
Thousands of young women suffer genital mutilation every day .
The issue must be dealt with in diplomatic relations and raised with the candidate countries in the course of the negotiations relating to the enlargement of the EU .
The countries of the EU must ratify the report of the proceedings of the International Criminal Court as soon as possible so that it can start work .
The EU can play an important part when it comes to encouraging countries to ratify different international conventions for the protection of human rights .
Allow me to conclude by saying that the reports that will be discussed after mine show that there are also violations of human rights within the EU .
Obviously we need to deal with this . If we want to be credible internally , we also need to have a sound policy externally .
Mr President , human rights are not something we have simply pulled out of the ether , nor have we taken them from party manifestos .
They are universal , that is to say indivisible and independent of countries and parties .
They are concerned not with opinions but with actions . They provide protection against injustice and discrimination .
They should be clear and comprehensible and not consist of idle talk .
The EU should not be changing or reinventing things .
The aforesaid legal practice is not static .
Fortunately , it is developing the whole time . Think of the latest judgement on homosexual equality , which has caused Great Britain to change its legislation , and the same will hopefully happen soon in Austria .
The conventions too are constantly being supplemented .
We have obtained conventions on bio-ethics and on the protection of personal data and private life , but I should especially like today to draw your attention to two new conventions from 1995 and 1998 concerning national minorities .
I think that Bosnia and Kosovo have taught us all that national minorities constitute the most potentially explosive factor in the Europe of the future .
The new Member States should not only comply with these requirements at the present time .
They should also guarantee that they will do so in the future and should therefore sign and ratify the conventions , as they would also wish to do , if they have not already done so .
But so too must the present Member States .
Let us therefore urgently entreat those countries which have not ratified these conventions on national minorities to see to it that this is done straight away .
Now , I think , they should put matters in order in their own countries and get these conventions signed .
The demands we impose upon others we must also impose upon ourselves .
We must say to all fifteen governments : go home and get the conventions signed and ratified .
Remember , too , the Charter for Regional and Minority Languages and remember the Convention for the International War Crimes Tribunal , which only Italy has ratified .
If only half of what is stated in the reports by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch is correct , then the situation regarding the treatment of asylum seekers is indefensible .
I could also mention children ' s rights , which are a huge problem , including in a number of candidate States .
I would also mention my proposal that we should have a supervisory body responsible for monitoring effectively the protection of personal data and the right to private life .
Technology is developing and so too , therefore , must our instruments for the protection of human rights .
Mr President , this report builds on previous excellent work in the European Parliament and other EU institutions .
Its starting point is the European Year Against Racism 1997 but the context has moved on significantly .
I very much welcome the positioning of the fight against race discrimination firmly in a human rights context by placing it in this joint debate because that is very much the approach taken in this report .
The first theme highlighted is that in the last year we have established two facts in law and in practice .
The first is the legal competence of the European Union to fight racism .
The second is the fact that race discrimination is a breach of a fundamental right and European Union law .
The second theme emphasised in my report is to positively welcome diversity as a source of social vitality , economic prosperity and international influence .
European identity is not a homogenous white culture and it can , and must , expand to encompass the experience and culture of minority communities .
Thirdly my report notes that racial prejudice and discrimination poisons our whole society , including for white people .
Surveys show that racism has increased and there is an increase in racist violence and support for extremist parties .
On the other hand there is also progress , however bumpy , and some regions and cities in Europe are becoming at ease with a multi-racial and multi-cultural way of life .
I would cite London , which I represent , as the multi-racial capital of Europe .
Certainly I believe we need to talk a lot about racism and diversity and identity , not sideline the issues or talk in code .
Some may find the language in my report blunt and it is certainly intended to be clear and unambiguous .
Could I just address three aspects which I understand caused some difficulty for some Members of the EPP-ED Group .
The first is the mention of Austria and the entry of Haider ' s party into government and recalling the Parliament ' s decision in February .
The second area where there are apparently EPP-ED hesitations is regarding enhanced rights for legally resident third country nationals of which there are around 20 million in the Union .
My understanding is that there is nothing in this report that the EPP has not been able to accept in the past .
The third area which I understand creates some problems for the EPP-ED Group is the belief that this report breaches subsidiarity by mentioning matters like education and policing .
There are a few of the EPP-ED amendments which I can accept although it is perhaps a pity that they did not make more input at committee stage .
Could I appeal to Members of that group to deal with their points of disagreement by making explanations of vote .
I believe this report will get majority support here in plenary .
It was adopted by a large majority in committee and some of the supporters of the Conservatives and Christian Democrats may not appreciate their failure to be part of that majority .
Could I just finally say that I can accept some of the amendments from the Green Group and the GUE , particularly the one which I welcome to replace the term " holocaust " by " Shoah " .
It is not in order to identify discrimination and I hope they will understand if I reject their amendments on that .
I hope very much that the report will get a large majority when it is voted on later .
Mr President , racism , xenophobia and antisemitism are completely incompatible with the European Union ' s political principles .
Please allow me to make a direct reference . These evil and harmful human phenomena are also completely at odds with the Bible .
Indeed , the word of God repeatedly and emphatically speaks of hospitality and mercifulness to strangers , as well as true charity as a consequence of our love for God , the Creator of all mankind .
Meanwhile , the day-to-day reality is disappointing .
Racism , xenophobia and antisemitism are realities in Eastern and Western Europe alike .
However , this situation should not lead to debilitating mutual recriminations or imputations .
Quite the opposite , in fact : a common social threat requires a common , political effort .
Hence the expediency of the Commission ' s communication in May last year and the present report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs , Human Rights , Common Security and Defence Policy .
The European Parliament sets great store by countering racism , xenophobia and antisemitism in the candidate countries , as is evident from the report and opinions .
This kind of attention also requires us to look into our own hearts .
Mrs Ludford ' s report bears witness to this .
Indeed , the European Union ' s moral standards for newcomers apply just as much to the Member States themselves .
With regard to manifestations of racism , xenophobia and antisemitism , the Member States are by no means holier than thou .
The enormity of the issues affecting the Roma people in Central and Eastern Europe stands out for two reasons .
Quantitatively , because it affects several million people and qualitatively , because the very existence of this extremely diversified people is at stake .
This is the Roma issue with all its intricacies in a nutshell .
For example , how can the Roma break through the social barrier and widespread discrimination whilst maintaining their identity ?
How can they be galvanised into social involvement and into achieving the much-needed change in mentality ?
Fortunately , such profound questions are heard - officially and unofficially - within the candidate Member States .
They have led to well thought-through and promising initiatives and projects at national level , but these absorb a huge amount of funding .
In a nutshell , the EU ' s future Member States are making a direct appeal for solidarity to the current EU Members .
Or does the Western expert ' s razor-sharp criticism levelled at the European Union for its dismissive attitude towards Roma asylum-seekers cut ice after all ?
The latter injustice should certainly not be missed out from the trio of racism , xenophobia and antisemitism in the candidate Member States .
In the wake of the holocaust , the systematic mass murder of millions of European Jews , antisemitism has still not disappeared from Central and Eastern Europe .
Extreme left and extreme right did not - and still do not - shrink from using this execrable and pernicious political instrument of battle .
Indeed , antisemitism does not appear to bear any relevance to the numerical presence of Jews .
For example , demagogues will take pleasure in pointing out the Jewish background - founded or not , as the case may be - of their hated political rivals .
Still less credible are the conspiracy ideas cooked up by the ultra-nationalist grouping where the so-called traditional enemies , i.e. the national minorities in various candidate countries , are systematically associated with Jews .
In this light , Jews and Hungarians are seen as traitors of the mother country in Romania .
The same goes for Jews and Germans , and for Jews and Czechs in Czechoslovakia , Jews and Germans in Poland and Jews and Turks in Bulgaria .
Paragraph 32 of the draft resolution should be read against this dark background .
The amendments have been carefully weighed up within the Committee on Foreign Affairs , Human Rights , Common Security and Defence Policy , and quite a few have been honoured .
Mainly to avoid duplication , I will only partly support the newly tabled amendments .
All in all , the present report requires , in my opinion , regular follow-ups or continuous re-assessment .
It would mean a great deal to me if this were to be accomplished .
Mr President , I would like to welcome the passion with which Mr Belder has delivered his report on the Roma and on the East European situation .
It is the most extreme versions of racism on the edges of Europe which we are disturbed about .
In Slovakia , the Czech Republic and Hungary there were significant problems with the treatment of the Roma .
I would make two or three other very simple points .
What the Roma situation shows , what Mr Belder 's report shows , is that an extreme version of discrimination clearly exists throughout the European Union , otherwise we would not be discussing this issue .
There are many questions we must discuss : How strongly will we push the question of Article 13 ?
Do we really want race discrimination protection throughout the European Union ?
The answer is yes .
We must have it quickly and we must have comprehensive legislation .
If we look around the European institutions and Parliament , we realise there are very few faces from ethnic minorities .
That situation is improving , but ultimately we have institutions which are bereft of representation .
It is representation and other similar issues that we must now tackle .
Racism is a complex issue .
We have begun to discuss it adequately but we have so much further to go .
Mr President , I would like to congratulate Mrs Malmstrm on her very balanced and illuminating report .
From the relevant debate within committee , it appears that Parliament supports the human rights principles unanimously , which I can only applaud .
I also back the rapporteur ' s decision to deal extensively with the women ' s rights issue .
With the sharia on the up in various parts of the world , this issue is more topical than ever .
According to reports which reached me over the past couple of days , the number of suicides among female intellectuals has risen dramatically over the past couple of weeks .
The example of Afghanistan illustrates that discrimination against women is not a cultural but a political phenomenon .
Moreover , Afghanistan is not the only country where the rights of women are violated on a massive scale .
Millions of women throughout the world are still being circumcised or married off .
In many African countries , women are not allowed to own any possessions or open a bank account without the permission of a man .
Other practices , such as polygamy or the inheriting of widows , have become untenable in an AIDS era .
It is hardly surprising that in Africa , more women than men are infected with the AIDS virus .
We must condemn all practices which lead to the mutilation or death of women .
Within the European Union , female circumcision must be made a punishable offence .
This is not a matter of tradition or culture , it is one of the basic human rights .
But the atrocities in the rest of the world should not blind us to the atrocities in our own countries .
Domestic violence is still a huge problem within the European Union . We must take a firm stance against this , which also involves prosecution .
Just as serious is the problem of white slavery : 500 000 women and girls per annum are imported to Western Europe alone .
A business which is estimated by the UNDP to be worth USD 7 billion .
A powerful and concerted effort is needed from all Member States to fight this outrageous form of trafficking in human beings .
Mr President , this report sends a powerful message to the Council and Commission .
I urge both institutions to turn it into something tangible , something concrete , and to do something constructive with it .
In any case , we will judge them on their actions , not their words .
Mr President , Commissioners , I would like to heartily congratulate the rapporteurs Mrs Malmstrm and Mr Haarder on excellent , systematic and innovative reports .
It is also the duty of Parliament to examine the question of human rights in the candidate countries in a systematic way .
We have the knowledge , but we need to coordinate it and ensure that it is put to use so that we can influence the enlargement of the Union in such a way that human rights are respected .
I am also very pleased that Mr Haarder took up the rights of minority groups .
It will be an historic moment if we adopt Mr Haarder 's report and call attention to the crimes and the lack of respect for the rights of minority groups that are found within the EU .
It is time to put a stop to the contradictory messages we have been giving out in this regard and which have meant that we have required more of the candidate countries than we have of ourselves .
In actual fact , I have no hesitation in saying that it will be an historic moment when we adopt Mr Haarder 's report because it would not previously have been possible .
Finally , I would like to mention another matter that is close to my heart , namely aid for the Commission 's work for children 's rights as expressed in Cecilia Malmstrm 's report .
The Commission needs this aid .
We ought also to give aid when it comes to allocating budget funds to work for children 's rights .
I also believe that , in this area , we need to guard against children ' s becoming a commodity .
There is also a lack of respect for the rules of the Hague Convention and , as far as this is concerned , we also have very , very serious problems in the candidate countries .
Without civil society we are living in a vacuum .
We cannot breathe unless we are motivated from outside , from grassroots level .
The report contains a number of excellent and well-considered proposals .
This is a precision weapon , which must be utilised more .
Speaking more generally , as Mrs Malmstrm herself also said , we have to develop a strategic approach to all the problems we are speaking about today .
It must be a dynamic one and one that can penetrate the reality of the situation at all levels .
We cannot go about correcting obvious wrongdoings by merely resorting to rhetorical commitment .
The Finnish writer Samuli Paronen wrote : " big crimes need many accomplices , millions - all those who do nothing " .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I think these reports speak for themselves .
Racism and antisemitism are on the increase in the European Union and beyond .
Our first act must therefore be not only to refuse to accept this situation but to publicly denounce it .
Due to its clear-sightedness , Mrs Ludford ' s report actively contributes to this approach .
It is a crime against human dignity . It is antisocial behaviour which can include physical attacks on individuals .
On each occasion , people were given the ideological arms to carry out the attacks .
There is also another type of racism which involves daily harassment and humiliation .
This can be seen in the discrimination applied in access to housing , leisure facilities and employment .
You will all be aware of the example , recently reported in the French press , of a young man from Strasbourg who sent two completely identical curricula vit to the same company .
The name on one was foreign-sounding and the other was typically French .
You can guess which ' applicant ' was invited for interview .
We cannot nowadays simply defend those described as minorities . Instead we must get them out of this ghetto .
Throughout its history Europe has been capable of the best and the worst .
The best is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Geneva Convention . The worst is colonialism , the Shoah , Stalinism and nazism .
We must teach our children about all of this .
We must clearly embrace everything which can strengthen Europe and reject anything which weakens it . At the same time we must send a clear message about the type of society we want to build .
These people have clearly chosen their side .
All these fine words must now lead to concrete action and practical legislative steps .
Legislation against racism must be harmonised . The words must take on real meaning .
Equal opportunities means allowing all children born on European soil to become European citizens and to enjoy the right of nationality of the country in which they are born .
For example , the right to immigration does not exist .
Moreover , the idea of completely uncontrolled immigration is unimaginable , if only for reasons of space and numbers .
And , in addition , there are duties which should sometimes be remembered as well as rights .
For example , we have been talking about the Roma .
Many of them abuse their women and , more importantly , their children .
Ill-treated , ragged children are often to be seen on the streets , and this is a conscious situation calculated to arouse the pity of passers-by and to induce them to give them some money .
We must take care that we do not become a minority ourselves , and that we do not become victims of discrimination here , in our own home .
Mr President , the 1998 / 1999 annual report on respecting human rights within the EU has gone far beyond its own brief .
Too much attention has gone into developing European powers in the field of human rights , of which , by all accounts , there are high expectations .
What is remarkable , however , is the deafening silence when it comes to those who really are the weaker parties amongst us : the elderly , babies and the handicapped .
And where does the right to life come in ?
And what about the protection of the family ?
Racism , xenophobia and antisemitism must be stamped out .
I fully share this view , which is expressed in the Ludford report .
But in contrast to what is stated in the report , we cannot prevent racism and xenophobia by adopting a unilateral , positive approach to the multi-cultural society as a " source of social vitality " .
This notion smacks of a nave kind of intellectualism .
The Netherlands has adopted such a policy over the past couple of years , aimed at bringing about a multi-cultural society .
This did not turn out to be a success , as is evident from the " multi-cultural drama " which we now find ourselves in .
Many immigrants have , as a result of this policy , ended up in a sub-class of society , with all the consequences that entails .
Finally , racism , xenophobia and antisemitism , have , I am sorry to say , existed throughout the world since time immemorial .
With this in mind , we should take the century-old Biblical commandment " love thy neighbour like thyself " to heart .
In so doing , he has confirmed my contention that this action by the 14 lacks any justifiable basis , Mr Schulz .
The report also criticises the fact that Austria has not yet ratified the 1998 European Charter for Minority Languages .
I should therefore like to point out that the ratification of the Charter for Minority Languages referred to is indeed an element of the government ' s programme .
The coalition has undertaken to table this before the Nationalrat ( National Assembly ) by January 2001 , and the highly criticised government is continuing to burnish Austria ' s already excellent image in the field of human rights .
( Applause from the right )
We have several basic principles .
We have also wanted to avoid , where possible , countries being mentioned or highlighted when the report on human rights for this year does not contain a systematic analysis of each country .
The next report to be put to the vote should be awaited with even more trepidation and should clearly show the interest which our Union takes in human rights within our Community .
Mr President , in this great debate about human rights it is surprising how infrequently we hear children mentioned - the people who are least able to protect themselves in relation to human rights .
Children are actually invisible in the EU Treaties .
Animals have rights , children do not .
Yet children are affected by the laws that the EU passes and the single market .
The electronic revolution seems to have given more freedom to exploiters , the paedophiles and the pornographers , than to industrialists .
In a twenty-first century where we regard ourselves as civilised there is still a slave trade in which children are bought and sold for sexual exploitation throughout the world .
We have problems in the candidate countries .
We have a scandal at the moment in Latvia which allegedly goes to the very heart of the government .
We have pictures on our TV almost every day of child soldiers fighting in conflicts throughout the world .
And of course , we have familiar tales of child labour .
We have to take tougher action .
We have to bring children up the agenda .
This is not to say that the EU should start to be responsible for children 's policy but we could start by ensuring that EU laws are child-proof .
We should ensure that measures developed by the Commission have a specific children 's dimension .
We should ensure that there is somebody in the Commission with responsibility for child matters .
In 1998 my own government appointed a child rights expert from Save The Children to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office to develop strategies and practical projects in relation to children 's rights .
Why can we not do the same ?
We also have in Great Britain a Children 's Select Committee able to investigate child abuses and to interrogate expert witnesses .
Why can we not do the same ?
Can we make sure that the Charter of Fundamental Rights has a section relating to children ?
I know we have communications .
We have action plans and conventions but what we want is action , not good intentions .
Mr President , why are human rights so far behind human progress ?
Science , technology and communication have broadened man ' s knowledge and expertise and abilities beyond belief .
Yet , the world is still being plagued by human rights violations on a massive scale , mainly due to war , poverty and misuse of power .
We should therefore concentrate all our efforts on these human rights .
But cultural value patterns underlie these violations too .
Mrs Malmstrm was therefore right in asking , in her special report , that the position of the woman be given special attention .
In a great many societies , the woman is still suffering at the hands of men as a result of institutionalised and sometimes legalised misuse of power .
Not collective habits but the effects on the individual must be the overriding factor in our judgement .
This means , for example , that we should not respect female circumcision as an old tradition but should fight it with all civilised means .
European foreign policy is too easily thrown off course by purely economic interests .
It is high time that human rights were given the priority they deserve , not only in theory but also in practice .
In this way , Europe can make a substantial contribution to progress , progress of civilisation .
Clearly , the Union ' s best tool for disseminating its human rights model is the experience of migrants .
Yet our greatest failings in human rights involve these very people .
I can give you two examples of this .
Firstly , there is cause for concern about the shape being taken by the readmission agreements which directly threaten fundamental rights such as the right of asylum or the right to live as a family .
The Union has confirmed its attachment to the Geneva and Dublin Conventions by establishing the anti-deportation principle .
What image of human rights do you think they will take back to their countries given their experiences of questionable living conditions , humiliating body searches , insults , endless forms and interrogations in police stations and detention centres ?
After all this , we then just end up sending them back to countries which they are legitimately seeking to leave , often for political and economic as well as humanitarian reasons .
These readmission agreements are dangerous for asylum-seekers , for the dissemination of human rights throughout the world and for the international stature of the European Union .
Another flagrant attack on human rights concerns foreigners and citizenship .
At a time when the Union is considering the definition of a Charter of Fundamental Rights , why are we creating second-class citizens ?
This really is a case of fundamental rights .
How can we allow some people to be excluded ?
How can they believe in the reality of the Declaration of Human Rights ?
On human rights , the Union could take pride in being the first in history to define citizenship according to a principle of residence instead of establishing discrimination based on nationality .
Mr President , this debate is taking place at an important moment for this Parliament .
The excellent reports by Mrs Malmstrm , Mrs Ludford and Messrs Haarder and Belder offer us Europeans the opportunity for analysis and , above all , self-criticism .
This year is especially significant .
A year after waging war against Yugoslavia in the name of human rights , we have remained passive in the face of an even greater violation of these rights on the part of Russia in Chechnya .
Two weeks ago , with the support of the United States , Spain and Great Britain allowed Pinochet to evade his responsibilities to face justice for his very grave violations of human rights .
This year we have also seen a racist and xenophobic party enter government in Austria , and in Spain we have also seen an outbreak of racist violence in El Ejido .
We have seen the mayor of that city receive 75 % support in the elections there .
This has also been the year in which the Catholic Church has issued a mea culpa on violations of human rights committed throughout history .
To this end , we in the European Union could develop a more constructive attitude .
I therefore propose five points , which are the contributions of the GUE / NGL Group to the various reports .
It is not so much a question of what is said , and the more talk there is of human rights , the worse are the abuses .
I want to make three small points .
The second point is an extension of yesterday ' s debate .
It is said that the more rights we have , the better , but rights are part and parcel of a complicated interplay of systems .
The result of an EU Charter would be an endlessly complicated morass of legal and constitutional problems .
Which is the decision-making authority ?
Are the rights guaranteed under the Convention on Human Rights better than those guaranteed under the EU ' s Charter ?
Is the latter , again , better than the national constitutions ?
That is a question which has no meaning .
Finally , my third remark is a compliment to the rapporteur , Mr Haarder .
It is with satisfaction and much interest that I see that paragraph 61 emphasises the collective right to trade union membership .
However , Mr Haarder ' s old hobbyhorse about the individual ' s right not to join a union is not included as a recommendation .
I want to congratulate Mr Haarder on the new political insight on his part which is evidenced here .
Mr President , the report contains important conditions for future candidate countries , thereby granting human rights problems the same status as economic conditions .
We particularly welcome the fact that the problem of religious freedom was mentioned , as some countries , especially the Czech Republic , have already passed very restrictive laws against religious minorities .
The passage on the human rights situation within the EU is also interesting and gives the EU no cause whatsoever to take the moral high ground vis--vis new candidate countries .
We Austrians now find ourselves in a situation , ostensibly in order to safeguard human rights , in which we no longer know whether to laugh or cry .
A few weeks ago , taxi drivers in Brussels were refusing to take Austrian passengers .
Austrians were thrown out of hotels and restaurants in Belgium and France .
Our assistants ' French teachers declared that they no longer wished to teach Nazis and school exchange programmes were cancelled .
Austrians working abroad had their cars vandalised , stones thrown at their houses and their children were threatened at school .
Today it was revealed that the Austrian entrant in a show jumping competition in Grenoble had his invitation withdrawn .
The town council in Grenoble held lengthy discussions on whether or not the horse was welcome but , in the end , its invitation was also withdrawn as it had not expressly distanced itself from the Austrian government .
Perhaps we shall soon see Mozart banned from international opera houses .
Who knows where it will all end .
Whoever takes political responsibility for this anti-fascist Punch and Judy show here in the House and in the EU countries in question has cause to be proud .
I can assure the previous speakers , who call me Satan ' s sidekick , that I am not hiding a cloven hoof beneath the benches .
If this irrational collective hatred against an entire nation can be so readily called upon in the EU , we are a long way from being in a position to dictate to other countries .
If only all these good people who take the floor here had lived sixty or more years ago , just think what Europe could have spared itself .
Yet Europe is trying to build itself without this basic element and even to destroy this through its two fundamental aspects , namely res publica and sovereignty .
It is not by chance that the Declaration of Human Rights coincided in France with the affirmation of national sovereignty .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I read the Ludford report with great interest and I would like to compliment the rapporteur on her remarks on Austria and the Austrian situation .
However , I would stress that these remarks are out of place in a report on human rights .
I would like to say something else on the subject of this report , regarding the right of Europeans to their own identity .
Throughout the document , the identity of Europeans , of the European nations , is not once referred to in a positive sense but always as a possible framework for xenophobia and racism .
I am a practising Christian who is sure of his beliefs : now , is this a reason to accuse me of xenophobia ?
On the contrary , xenophobia is more likely to be caused by a decline in religious convictions . Religion per se is a factor which promotes fraternity .
I am a staunch Italian patriot , so , according to paragraph O of this document , I could be accused of xenophobia .
We must make it clear that Europe does have a cultural identity , based on our Greek and Judo-Christian heritages and on enlightenment , which enters freely into dialogue with other identities .
A multicultural Europe which does not include European culture would lead to disaster and its decline .
This is not a not a question of black or white cultures : there is no connection between colour and culture . Culture is based on values , not colour .
There are many issues related to xenophobia and racism , but these must be dealt with by the local communities .
It is not our place to define labour market quotas , or police or any other labour market quotas , and if we were to do so we would hinder integration , not encourage it .
Lastly , are we really of the opinion that all those who are not in favour of completely uncontrolled immigration are racist ?
And do we really think that the Constitutions of all of our nations are racist because their criteria are different from those espoused by Baroness Ludford ?
These aspects of the report need to be evaluated carefully and many of them changed , or we will find it hard to obtain a general consensus in this Chamber .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to start by offering my congratulations on Mrs Malmstrm ' s report to Mrs Malmstrm herself and to everyone who contributed to it .
It seems to me to be a very comprehensive report and to make some very striking points .
I would like to draw the House ' s attention to three key points concerning human rights as I see this issue at present .
One of these is the issue of water . The World Water Forum is about to take place in The Hague , at the end of this week to be precise .
At this event , water will be treated as a rare economic commodity .
This is serious , as whilst it may be true that water is becoming ever more important in economic terms , it is also true that the right to water is a human and social right for everyone .
I would therefore like to draw honourable Members ' attention to precisely this issue , water , which is going to be one of the most hotly debated subjects this year .
The situation is becoming ever more critical , but the right to water also has to be seen as a human right .
The second point that I would like to mention today , very briefly , is the situation in Angola .
The report says that attacks on human rights in Angola have been treated with too much diplomatic discretion .
We need to have a clearer and better informed view of events in Angola , as I said in this House when we were discussing the issue of attacks on journalists ' rights .
I refer , Mr President , to point 38 and points 41 and 42 of the Haarder report .
We have to admit , however , that we still have a lot of homework to do .
Self-criticism is not enough .
It does us credit , but alone it does not suffice .
The same applies to the way in which many refugees are treated in many Member States .
How many more times do we intend to debate the conditions in numerous detention centres as a problem of which we are aware but which has yet to be regulated ?
In this sense , thank you .
Mr President , these reports are heading in the right direction but we cannot accept the self-satisfaction of the recitals in the current treaties .
To be effective , the fight against discrimination requires broader and , in particular , more specific measures .
Therefore , any restriction linked to nationality for access to civil service jobs must be abolished .
The institutions of the Community and Member States must lead the way in this .
In the same way , full citizenship implies giving third country nationals resident in the European Union the right to vote in all elections .
As long as these third country nationals are refused political rights , they will be the target of demagogy and discrimination .
If their status as taxpayers justifies their access to this right , why limit this to the local and European levels ?
Finally , in Europe the situation of all illegal immigrants must be legalised in order to fight against the traffic in labour and the xenophobic hatred which has recently been seen , in Spain , for example .
This would mean breaking with the provisions of the Schengen , Amsterdam and Dublin Treaties which are real insults to the right of asylum .
Mr President , we can write all we like about human rights and we can report and discuss the issue , but unless we follow through on our intentions and the reports , they are meaningless .
They gather dust on the shelves of the Commission and in the offices of well-meaning people and governments .
We must show leadership as must the media , educational institutions and the churches ; they have not shown such leadership in the past .
Shame on us for ignoring Mozambique for so long and doing too little , too late .
It is a real shame on us and the other European institutions that we cannot respond to these kinds of disasters .
Shame on us for allowing the children of Iraq to die at the rate of 5 000 a month .
Half a million have died since the introduction of sanctions .
There continues to be a barbarous war in Iraq .
Bombing continues ruthlessly and unreported .
It is a war against children and the innocent citizens of that country .
We should intervene with the Security Council individually and collectively to ensure that medicines are delivered to the people .
Shame on us for allowing the sale of arms and weapons to the Great Lakes region .
Shame on us in the European Union for not stamping out racism and xenophobia which are endemic in my country and in the EU in general .
Racism is a crime - a crime that is not pursued in the Union , an offence against a law that is not enforced in the Union .
It is something we have a great responsibility to do something about .
We are not doing anything whatsoever about it .
The citizens of this Union are our judges and juries .
Unless we show them leadership and a sense of purpose , a sense of direction , they will make their judgements in the coming years .
We will have failed them unless we tackle racism and xenophobia in the European Union .
I want to say to my government that we must do the same at home in Ireland .
Mr President , I would like to congratulate Mr Belder on his sound report which deals with the fight against racism , xenophobia and antisemitism in the candidate countries .
This all revolves around the kind of philosophy on man and society people take their inspiration from , and Mr Belder has presented his in no uncertain terms .
The report is based on the notion of the unity of the human species , a Christian teaching which forms a firm barrier against any lapses of a racist nature .
Man could be seen as being created in the image of God .
This should make it impossible to see one ' s fellow man as a threat or to harm his dignity .
Mr Belder quite clearly does not pursue the ideology , which is termed conservative by some , which defends the identity of communities against cultural influences from outside .
An ideology of this kind , which overestimates the sense of community , contains insufficient guarantees against tendencies towards discrimination .
I condemn such a conservative ideology .
The candidate Member States expect the European Union to be a constitutional community based on the common acceptance of values which are mostly of a Jewish-Christian origin .
It is only logical that we should observe these values .
This does not always accord with their and our gut reactions but that is - like it or not - the trademark of sound principles .
They do not always turn out to be to our advantage .
People have to overcome their fears and short-term interests .
We need to help the candidate Member States in a critical , yet constructive , way and not be afraid to call a spade a spade .
The Belder report contains a few concrete pointers in this respect .
Churches , trade unions , women ' s organisations , occupational training courses and other educational institutions , in particular , play a decisive role in this .
My Group did not have any reason to table any more amendments .
With regard to Mrs Ludford ' s report , I belong to a minority in my Group who do not consider the report ' s shortcomings serious enough to vote against it .
It is true that proposals on voting rights for foreigners do not fit in at all in a report on xenophobia , but we do agree on the principle of drafting a recommendation in this respect .
I have subscribed to this practice in the Netherlands for some 25 years , starting with the South Moluccans .
I have no problem at all with providing them with government jobs .
Governments do well to give ethnic minorities a visible presence in police forces , for example .
In my opinion , it is extremely impractical to restrict the options in this respect , and I certainly do not want to see this become a requirement .
What interest would be served in doing so ?
If the Ludford report is not changed for the worse by amendments , the minority which I represent here will vote for this report .
Mr President , I have two brief comments to make to the previous speaker , my esteemed colleague Mr Oostlander .
As far as the debate on the Ludford and Haarder reports is concerned , allow me to make a few technical observations on behalf of my Group .
Mr Haarder submitted an excellent draft report to the committee and the committee tabled 170 proposed amendments and 22 compromise amendments , making a total of 192 amendments .
The committee spent days discussing them and then voted on a largely amended report and now we have another 69 proposed amendments here in plenary .
There is nothing dramatic about this per se , but nearly half the proposed amendments are from the group which calls itself TDI : the Technical Group of Independent Members .
This is the combination of Mrs Bonino and Mr Le Pen , in itself a sensational combination , but this club never takes part in debates on technical work .
These ladies and gentlemen are never present in committee .
They never take part in detailed discussions of the problems .
Why then do we always have these proposed amendments in plenary ?
The answer is in their speeches , which we have already had the pleasure of here today .
They want to use this forum to bring their platitudes to the attention of as wide an audience as possible throughout the world .
Technical work , no thank you .
Simplified rabble-rousing , yes please .
That is the political strategy of the extreme right in this House .
This is important , because only those who are critical of themselves have the right to criticise others .
That is why these reports , both Baroness Ludford ' s antiracism report and Mr Haarder ' s human rights report , pave the way .
The annual debate on these matters paves the way for the basic political orientation of the European Union .
And when I learn that these reports are being abused for prosaic domestic policy considerations , then those who practise this abuse are ill-advised .
I just wonder what that has to do with human rights .
Anyone who abuses a human rights report in order to make national domestic policy has missed the point completely .
As far as the fuss in points 41 and 42 about Savoyard princes being allowed to enter Italy is concerned , I fail to see exactly how human rights are being violated .
Anyone who wants to hold a serious discussion on human rights in the EU should talk about human rights and not abuse these valuable and excellent reports for tactical domestic policy games .
( Applause )
Commissioner , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , after this debate , it should be crystal clear that the issue of human rights is not just something to talk about on Sundays while wearing your Sunday best .
Human rights must be integrated into all political cooperation that the EU is involved in .
We need consistency , patience and a well thought-out strategy for turning noble words into concrete action that leads to results .
I hope that the message has got through and that , in this House , we will soon receive specific proposals from the Council on how we can take this work forward together .
Mr President , although we are moving in the right direction , not everything in the garden is rosy .
For example , some States do not respect the basic right to education and the use of one ' s own language .
How can we justify our habit of talking about human rights in places thousands of kilometres away while at home we do the opposite and vary our positions according to commercial and political interests ?
Chirac speaks of the rights of the Inuits in Quebec , but ignores linguistic rights in France .
He condemns Jospin for calling Hezbollah by its name while he pontificates about other types of organisations and prides himself on his anti-terrorist cooperation with Spain .
The Spanish Prime Minister speaks of Chechnya as if it were an internal affair , thereby clearly allying himself with the extermination of the Chechen people .
This approach to politics , based on pure hypocrisy , is entirely unacceptable to us .
Finally , for the Basque citizens whom I represent , there can be no excuses based on internal affairs or on political opportunism .
For us there are simply , here and elsewhere , people , citizens , with unalienable rights on which we wish to base our coexistence .
The Italian Constitution solemnly bans the former kings of the House of Savoy , their consorts and male descendants from entering or residing on Italian territory .
The Italian Constitution is the result of the great historical agreement between all the democratic forces which fought against fascism and to liberate Italy during the Second World War .
It is intolerable that the European Parliament should ask us to breach the provisions of this Constitution , which is one of the most democratic and advanced Constitutions in the world .
Moreover , the House of Savoy has never acknowledged the sovereignty of the Republic or the irrevocable nature of the decision to create a Republic , which is enshrined in the Constitution .
Mr President , we have no hesitation or uncertainty in rejecting the request , which is unexpected in this context , to breach the Italian Constitution .
We have no hesitation in reiterating that there is no room in my country for the descendants of the former kings of Italy .
I have identified three particularly characteristic points .
We are invited to achieve a more ethnically diverse workforce which will require , in the first instance , all staff to be identified by ethnic origin .
We will have to establish controlled records or , in other words , conduct a policy of racial discrimination of the masochistic type known as positive discrimination .
We are also invited to recognise all the new religious communities and to afford them the same rights and the same existence as the religions of the Bible .
This unfortunately echoes a decision taken yesterday by the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg which gives the Church of Scientology the satisfaction of being treated like all European religions .
Finally , it is suggested that we give homosexual couples the same rights as families .
You are forgetting that families obtain their rights from the State and from the nations clearly because they allow the State and the nations to continue in existence and because they have a common interest .
Yet I must say that all this supposedly antiracist talk has some common features , the first of which is intellectual invalidity and the second the destruction of liberty .
This talk is intellectually invalid because the terms used are not even defined .
What are racism , xenophobia , nationalism and extremism ?
What do these concepts cover ?
What are their philosophical origins ?
What doctrines do they involve ?
Do those accused of these acts deserve this opprobrium ?
The aim is really to fraudulently make patriotic sentiment seem to be expansionist nationalism , the legitimate refusal of migration policy to be xenophobia and the desire of nations to preserve their identity to be racism .
This is completely absurd .
Racism is the desire to achieve the domination of one race over another .
Who is racist in Europe nowadays ?
Xenophobia is the rejection of a foreign presence .
You can morally condemn this but , politically speaking , you should consider that , in its literal meaning , xenophobia is the source of all the national liberation movements which we have praised at other times .
As for antisemitism which is apparently re-emerging in Europe , why not ask the real questions ?
Yet the problem with this supposed antiracism is not its search for truth or even its support for migrants ...
Mr Schulz , my family never accepted any German capo . This will not start with you ! ...
It is rather a question of nipping in the bud any vague desires which nations might have to oppose the destruction of their identity .
The religion of antiracism has its dogmas , its priests , its inquisitors and its witch-hunts .
History will roundly condemn the protagonists of this shameful ideology which we are proud to fight at any time .
The English philosopher John Locke once said that a country without law is a country without freedom .
For instance , Victor Emmanuel of Italy was forced to leave his native Italy as an uncomprehending nine-year old child , and for fifty-three years has been unable to return .
If he sails from his home in Corsica in the direction of Italian territorial waters , coastguards are mobilised using modern satellite technology instructing him with loudspeakers to turn back .
His twenty-eight-year-old son has only been to Italy once when his plane was diverted to Milan airport because of bad weather .
The plane was surrounded by police guards and he was told not to step off the plane .
Neither represent any conceivable threat to the Italian State .
There is much talk of a Charter of Fundamental Rights .
Such talk will ring exceedingly hollow if this Parliament does not first do all it can to address existing Treaty violations .
This is also the case for Austria where Otto von Habsburg was required to deny his own identity and renounce rights belonging to him and to members of his family to enter Austria .
The rights under the Treaty are not conditional in my view .
The Treaty does not discriminate against individual families and the Treaty is therefore violated .
The right to enter , live and die in your own country are fundamental , sacrosanct rights and I hope that this Parliament will uphold them .
I therefore commend paragraphs 41 and 42 to this House .
Mr President , respect for human rights is one of the European Union ' s cornerstones .
That is what it says in the Treaties and that is what we keep reminding each other of .
It is therefore to be welcomed that every year , the European Parliament issues a report on respecting human rights within the European Union itself .
The commotion is justified , given the nature of the topic , but the confusion is not .
Fortunately , we can show our disagreement by drumming our fingers on our tables .
Thanks to our discussions , I have gained a much deeper insight into the complexity of the matter and I would especially praise him here in public for his openness .
As far as the content of the report is concerned , I would like to outline a few topics .
Is it not rather ironic that it is precisely asylum and migration issues , which are at the very top of the political agenda in Europe , that have been echoed so clearly in this report ?
Should , in fact , the European policy on asylum and migration not lead to fewer human rights violations in this field ?
To ask the question is to answer it .
It is wise to remain vigilant when it comes to observing human rights of the extensive minorities in Europe .
People from these groups , more often than not economically vulnerable , run the considerable risk of becoming victims of discrimination .
The reality is that millions of people live in poverty in our rich and privileged Europe .
The report quite rightly describes this issue of poverty and disadvantage in terms of human rights , and this seems to be a step in the right direction .
The report also devotes attention to the issue of the equal treatment of men and women and the equal treatment of different types of relation and life styles , more so than in previous years .
Free choices which people make in their private lives , and which do not harm anybody , should be honoured , with respect for diversity and with a guarantee of the principle of equal treatment .
As is evident from the amendments , the battle is not over yet , not by a long shot .
My Group , on the other hand , considers the principle of equality sacrosanct .
After all , human rights are there for everybody .
Mr President , I should like to express my thanks for the broad support given to the main features of this report .
Human rights are , of course , indivisible and independent of political parties and national borders .
It is therefore important that we in this Parliament should obtain broad agreement on this issue , for a right cannot , of course , be universal if half of Parliament is opposed to it .
I should especially like to thank Mrs Swiebel , both for her friendly words today and for the intense collaboration which we have had and which has naturally given her considerable influence .
I should like to tell her that I am also delighted to vote for the further amendments which she has tabled and which we shall be voting on tomorrow .
I should also , however , like to thank Mr Pirker and Mrs Palacio .
I should like to express my gratitude for the broad agreement we have obtained in connection with this report .
I think this is commendable , especially this year when human rights have been so high on the agenda of the European Union .
Finally , I would say to Mr Krarup that he must withdraw his expression of delight at the change in paragraph 61 , because this was an error pure and simple .
There are ten words missing from the Danish version .
If he reads the English version , he will be able to see what the wording should be .
Mr President , in the present report China has been subjected to criticism .
The reports direct criticism towards twenty or so countries outside Europe and towards almost all EU and candidate countries .
In fact , I am considering sending the reports to the EU committee of the National People 's Congress in Beijing and suggesting that they do something similar .
How about a self-critical report from the National People 's Congress on human rights in China and a report on human rights in the world and in the EU , as seen from a Chinese point of view ?
In actual fact , of course , we do need to discuss human rights with China . Then the Chinese will have to discuss and not just protest .
At the same time , the European Union turns a blind eye to situations in which human rights are being savagely violated when , of course , it comes to protecting its imperialistic interests .
Its attitude towards the Turkish regime is a blatant example .
Furthermore , the policy being exercised by the European Union at home basically violates a series of fundamental human rights .
Political and social rights are being hit and individual rights and democratic freedoms are being trampled underfoot .
The results of this policy are already visible in the support being given to extremist , racist , Fascist powers , and not just in Austria .
And yet the report on the fight against racism does not demonstrate that the necessary conclusions have been drawn .
Mr President , I congratulate Mr Haarder whose excellent work I would describe as well-balanced , measured and well thought out .
Furthermore , since I have had the honour of working with him on previous annual reports on human rights , I know how difficult it is .
I hope that he receives the broad support of this House that he has asked for .
He deserves it .
Mr President , at the beginning of his first intervention , Mr Haarder said that Europe did not invent human rights , and that is true .
We have talked about the defence of these human rights and I would now like to insist that if we proclaim human rights , it naturally follows that we must ensure that those rights can be exercised .
Just one more example : last Sunday the Basque people received an intimidating invitation not to turn out to vote .
Fortunately , Basque society voted en masse , displaying the courage which is so essential in that environment .
Mr President , I want to speak for a few moments on the Ludford report on countering racism in the European Union .
This is a very important topic .
It is crucial for the construction of a peaceful and harmonious Europe , a Europe united in its objective and at ease with itself and its citizens .
That is certainly what we , on this side of the House , believe .
That is what this report aims to do .
But the EPP it seems , and others opposite , clearly do not want that .
We heard a few moments ago a disgraceful speech from Mr Gollnisch on behalf of his party .
Mrs Palacio , who is just leaving , has said that human rights are needed in a public place and at the core .
And yet , by their amendments to the Ludford report , they seek to divide Europe and to make millions of our brothers and sisters from the ethnic minorities second-class citizens .
The EPP 's amendments seek to divide families .
They object to family unity .
Their Amendment No 12 seeks to delete reference to the need for family unity in Europe .
The EPP , it seems , do not accept that ethnic minorities feel alienated from the electoral process .
They do not feel that the European Parliament and national parliaments should reflect Europe 's diverse ethnic nature .
That is the aim of Amendment No 13 . It deletes that from the report .
They are against ethnic diversity and they do not accept the benefits given to our society by all its people .
They do not accept that everyone has a part to play in the electoral process .
We cannot complain about what is going on in the candidate states if we have amendments like this being put forward in the European Union .
Nor , it seems , does the EPP believe that ethnic minorities should be encouraged to vote .
Is that what we want ?
I do not think it is .
We , on this side of the House , reject that position completely .
We will publicise the EPP position and their amendments whether they are passed or not .
We deplore the line that Mr Hernandez Mollar and his colleague have put forward .
We urge the Liberal Group to dissociate themselves from their links with the EPP over the amendments because it has shown itself to have racist instincts in its party .
Should the EPP amendments to this report be adopted we will oppose the whole report .
The EPP amendments weaken the report and would make the position of this Parliament worse than at the moment .
It would make it so weak that it would be one that we could not support .
It would be a retrograde step .
So , I urge all colleagues to reject the amendments put forward by the European People 's Party and their colleagues on the far right .
Mr President , I thank all those who have spoken on my report .
I should just like to clear up a few misunderstandings .
Firstly , nowhere does this report say that fighting racism means you should have no immigration controls .
It says that such controls should not be racially discriminatory and should avoid fuelling xenophobic attitudes or hostility to ethnic minorities .
The references to enhanced rights for third country nationals means , of course , rights for those who are legally resident .
Secondly , on religion and identity , there is an assertion that there is no exclusivity .
I agree with Mr Schulz .
Christianity has been an important contributor to European values but it does not hold a monopoly on them .
Thirdly , reference has been made to quotas .
Nowhere in this report are quotas mentioned .
As a liberal I am opposed to quotas .
Fourthly , on Austria , the assertion is made that we should not mention Austria because of the time-frame of the report .
This report is the annual debate on racism in the year 2000 .
It refers to where we are now .
I welcome the remarks of Mr Oostlander , and I welcome his support for the report .
As a gesture of goodwill I will be accepting five small amendments from the EPP , though incidentally none of those mentioned by Mr Evans .
I very much hope that more members of the EPP / ED Group will support this report .
Mr President , what has not been stressed sufficiently thus far in the debate I believe is democracy and subsidiarity .
Article 3b of the Maastricht Treaty , President , still confines subsidiarity to the relationship between the European Union and the Member States .
Regions and stateless nations are ignored .
People within their own communities therefore suffer .
They are unable to establish the structures they need so that human rights can prosper and the blight of racism can be forever removed .
In own nation , Wales , for example , we have no empowerment to establish our own laws to counter racism and defend human rights .
The principles of cohesion and the drive to limit poverty and depravity in our communities are a well-settled concept in the European Union .
However , it must encompass respect for minorities everywhere if it to inspire the world in its drive towards defeating racism and defending human rights .
A heartfelt thank you to the rapporteurs for their work .
More and more , we need to follow our words with actions .
Disrespect for human rights , racism , xenophobia and antisemitism are not confined to other continents , but are also present here , within ourselves , our lives and our institutions .
Even in this Parliament , fascist and xenophobic opinions are expressed .
We must start with ourselves if we want to build a world where everyone helps each other .
Europe is full of Haiders .
We are Haiders when , in Rome , parties of the right-wing opposition and the new centre incite the people to hatred and prevent the authorities from accommodating the Roma safely in places with running water and electricity .
And this does not mean that I do not condemn the unlawful behaviour of many Roma and other immigrants .
I would like to be able to share with everyone my conviction that , in our countries , no one is a stranger .
For this reason I give my full support to the proposals contained in the resolutions which promote and lend support to all those elements which contribute to a culture of peaceful coexistence and all-embracing citizenship .
Mr President , I should like to concentrate mainly on certain aspects of the Belder report , which contains an excellent analysis of the current situation in the candidate countries .
As far as these candidates are concerned , and this has already been said , we must avoid creating the impression that we demand higher standards of them than we meet ourselves .
We should compare the actual situation in these countries with the reality in our own countries rather than with our perfect legal texts , otherwise the candidate countries will always come off worse in practice .
We should not look down from our high moral horse and condemn this phenomenon as long as it is only a question of temporary manifestations on the path towards self-definition .
I should like to use the situation in Estonia and Latvia as an example of a positive development between two sections of the population which is by no means self-evident .
The fact that the Russian tanks which withdrew in 1994 were often daubed with the words " We ' ll be back ! " did little to foster understanding between the Baltic states and Russia .
And yet , despite this history , there has not been one single incident of violent clashes between the majority and minority sections of the population since they regained independence .
I therefore take the view that the express call to continue measures to integrate the Russian minority contained in point 14 of the Belder report is unnecessary .
This is already happening .
This express reference creates the erroneous impression that this is not the case .
The new multicultural Europe needs a policy which ensures that immigrants and different social groups and minorities are integrated into the social , political and economic life of national societies .
What we need is a common European asylum and immigration policy based on European humanitarian values .
Of course , the education sector is also important and we need huge improvements in education for the children of immigrants and gypsies .
At the same time , the mass media need to help fight prejudices and to demonstrate the beauty of modern multicoloured , multicultural society .
Of course , within this framework , respect for those who are conscientious objectors , for example , and who do not therefore wish to serve in the army , should be guaranteed .
I should like to take this opportunity of assuring the European Parliament that the problem which used to exist in Greece no longer exists , following the adoption and application of legislation on 1.1.98 .
The reference in question , therefore , in Mr Haarder ' s otherwise excellent report , is therefore irrelevant today .
The abolition of the death penalty worldwide is the very least that we should be calling for if we really want to defend human rights .
The condemned sometimes await their execution for many years in American prisons .
Having respectively suffered 26 and 18 years of this vile torture of waiting on death row , they must immediately be set free .
As it is now time for the votes , we shall suspend the joint debate and it shall resume at 3 p.m.
Vote
Madam President , to clarify the situation , 29 amendments have been tabled together with a proposal to reject the common position .
As rapporteur , I obviously support the amendments of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy .
I also support all the amendments intended to restore the position adopted by the European Parliament at first reading .
On the other hand , as rapporteur , I must clearly state that I cannot support the amendments which deviate too far from the position adopted at first reading .
This concerns Amendments Nos 17 , 16 and 19 in particular . Clearly , I also cannot support the proposal for rejection tabled by the Union for a Europe of Nations Group under Amendment No 8 .
Thank you , Mr Lannoye . This is totally clear .
After the vote :
Madam President , can the Commission confirm that it has accepted Amendment No 1 by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy ?
This would mean that the directive could be adopted by a qualified majority , and we would then be able to lay the directive to rest .
Belgians and French people would then be able to enjoy British chocolate as much as the British have enjoyed French and Belgian chocolate .
( The President declared the common position approved ( as amended ) )
( The President declared the common position approved ( as amended ) )
( The President declared the common position approved ( as amended ) )
( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
Madam President , I would like to point out a mistake in translation in Amendments Nos 18 and 30 .
Quite right , Mrs Myller . I am informed that the Translation Department is already aware of these errors .
We can therefore point these out at the appropriate moment .
Before the vote on Amendment No 18
In both Amendment No 18 and No 30 it should read " critical loads should not be exceeded " .
In place of the word ' exceeded ' it says ' reached ' , which is the opposite .
Thank you . Everyone is now clear on this .
( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
Joint motion for a resolution on the Special European Council to be held in Lisbon on 23 / 24 March 2000
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
Madam President , I would be most grateful if we could lay Mrs Caroline Jackson ' s resolution to rest in the Committee on the Environment ; we could take care of it in three or four minutes .
I would be most grateful if we do that right now .
I feel that we should not spend any more time on this .
I will therefore put this to the House .
Madam President , please note that the French socialists in the House will not take part in the vote as we consider that the tabled motion is not impartial .
We also consider that the application of directives is the responsibility of the law , the Commission and the Court of Justice .
We do not therefore wish to take part in this vote which we regard as partisan .
We do not in fact yet know whether we will be voting on this motion this morning as I was going to put this to the House .
Ladies and gentlemen , we must think about this carefully .
I did say clearly , at the start of voting time , that we would go as far as the motion for a resolution on the European Council in Lisbon .
I said that we would end at 1.15 p.m. and we have respected this timetable .
We should keep to what was decided .
Madam President , I disagree with this decision .
The House is free to decide if it wishes to vote on this now or not and I would therefore request that we take a vote on whether to vote .
( The President put the proposal to the House which decided to end voting time )
Madam President , I did not want to interrupt the voting when I arrived a little bit late .
Could we request that the bells be rung a little bit earlier ?
The lift was full of Vice-Presidents , Quaestors and all sorts of people coming down from the twelfth floor .
Absolutely , Mrs Banotti .
We will make a note of this .
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE
Recommendation for second reading of the Lannoye report ( A5-0047 / 2000 )
However , these amendments were not adopted , unfortunately .
As a consequence , we remain concerned about the third-world cocoa producers .
We predict that , despite any improvements for the benefit of producers of other vegetable fats , the overall outcome will , in any case , be harmful to the third world .
It is regrettable that the study into the impact of the new directive for the countries in the South was not carried out earlier .
From now on , chocolate is no longer a product which consists of nothing but cocoa butter .
In some parts of the Union , the name ' chocolate ' was already used , even if the product contained substitute products .
We regret that the standardisation we have achieved is to the detriment of the consumer and the cocoa producer , and was dictated by the pursuit of profit .
This states that chocolate is the former name for an authentic , healthy and quality product , produced in its day according to ancestral tradition and to which some delightfully outdated nostalgia-seekers are still attached .
Once again it seems that the law of business or , in other words , the law of the strongest has been preferred over the protection of consumers , SMEs and our craftsmen ...
( The President cut the speaker off )
Mr President , given the disastrous vote just now on the chocolate issue , I must say that I am not particularly proud of what we have approved .
The European Parliament is clearly not in tune with public opinion in several respects .
Firstly , its position does not correspond to the demands of consumers who want clear labelling .
We have not granted them this labelling on chocolate .
Parliament is also not in tune with public opinion which is becoming increasingly reticent about GMOs .
We have rightly refused to allow GMOs in chocolate , but only by three votes .
In addition , we have applied the precautionary principle by refusing the prior studies on the impact which this directive will have on the producing countries and so on .
Nothing has changed .
The question to be asked is who really benefits from the manipulation and ...
( The President cut the speaker off )
The victors are not just British chocolate makers but chocolate consumers right across Europe who will now be free to wallow in the delight of Dairy Milk , Galaxy and Milky Way at will .
Clear labelling will enable consumers to choose and enjoy the chocolate that they want .
Their taste buds will no longer be deprived by Europe 's chocolate police .
Developing countries are also the victors .
This legislation takes account of the needs of the world 's poorest farmers .
Those vegetable fats permitted will be of tropical origin , and there will also be a review of the impact of the directive after three years .
Best of all , the directive will increase chocolate sales overall , thereby increasing the market for developing countries ' exports .
So chocoholics can now munch safe in the knowledge they are doing their bit for the Third World .
I am sure you will agree that the EU , in the past , has got itself into a right Twix on this matter .
Some governments have got their Snickers in a twist trying to protect their chocolate industries .
For them , however , Crunchie time has come and they now have Creme Egg on their faces .
It is high time the European Parliament gave two Cadbury 's Fingers to the chocolate snobs .
- It is now sixteen years since the debate on chocolate started in the European Parliament .
I believe that we should not even have become involved in this directive .
Debates about national tastes and products give us too far wide a sphere for ridiculous discussions .
Consumer choice will be exercised regardless of what the EU does , and that is only fair .
National chauvinism has been all too often evident in the chocolate debate .
Given that the resultant product incorrectly referred to as chocolate will not be any cheaper , consumers will not gain in the purchase price what they will lose in transparency with regard to the nature of the product .
Although we do not share the protectionist concerns hiding behind the defence of ' real chocolate ' , we do not see any reason to vote for the Commission directive .
After more than two years of prevarication , the Council finally adopted in October 1999 a common position on the directive relating to cocoa and chocolate products .
As it stands , this text does not allow the interests of consumers , small-scale chocolate makers or cocoa producers to be protected . It also does not guarantee the quality of chocolate .
This proposal in no way responds to the concerns expressed by MEPs during the vote at first reading on 23 October 1998 .
This text opens the door to the industrial production of cocoa butter equivalents based on palm oil , the price of which is significantly lower than that of cocoa .
Its adoption could lead to a dramatic fall in income for the eleven million people earning a living from cocoa in West Africa and for all the producing regions .
However , there is no guarantee that the chocolate industry will use shea nut oil which , in any case , can only replace 50 % of the cocoa butter .
This is a largely artificial conflict between cocoa producers and shea producers , between poor countries and even poorer countries .
In reality , this proposed directive mainly reflects the position of the chocolate multinationals and defends only their interests with any certainty .
I am therefore not happy about this .
This is why I fully support the amendments which place greater importance on the concerns of small-scale chocolate makers , the interests of consumers and the future of millions of small-scale cocoa producers .
Firstly I must congratulate the rapporteur on his tenacity in this ' chocolate ' issue .
Next I will sketch the broad outlines of this issue .
The eight other Member States - Germany , Belgium , Spain , France , Greece , Italy , Luxembourg and the Netherlands - ban vegetable fats .
This has clearly succeeded in causing some occasionally stormy debates and has particularly revived legitimate concerns among consumers .
A campaign has subsequently developed to promote food quality at the same time as food diversity .
The replacement of cocoa butter with other vegetable fats raises a question about protecting the very nature of chocolate .
Adequate guarantees must therefore be provided for both consumers and cocoa producers .
We must demand the following :
very explicit wording intended for consumers so that they can buy chocolate in full knowledge of the facts ;
the reservation of the name ' quality chocolate ' for products which contain cocoa butter ;
the restriction of alternative vegetable fats to tropical fats not obtained using enzymatic production processes and not originating from genetic engineering ;
a study into the impact of such a measure on the export of cocoa by developing countries .
I support these demands which are contained in the amendments tabled by the rapporteur . I myself am a consumer who is concerned about the quality and taste of traditional chocolate .
I also believe that consumer protection policy , elevated to the rank of a Community policy , does not just involve food safety and the protection of health .
It must aim to promote quality food which is part of a more general philosophy of quality of life !
The directive also provides for the marketing of these chocolate products containing vegetable fats in all Member States , subject to a label which lists the ingredients .
This is a position of principle which is not really open to negotiation , just like the protection of quality products and consumers which we all are .
This is all cock-eyed .
What is even more astonishing is that this same Europe produces mad cows , sheep with scrapie and chickens containing dioxin and imports hormone-treated beef and genetically modified cereals .
Of course we should ' inform ' consumers that the products they are buying are adulterated .
Yet this is nonsensical when this information is written in small letters in an incomprehensible language on the back of the packaging .
You are accustomed to doing anything you like in the name of your dogmas , free movement , free competition and free trade .
Please stop messing about with our gastronomic traditions , our quality products and our soil .
Stop playing with our food .
Now that would be real progress .
Understand this . I and my colleagues on the European right will vote for the ' zero option ' which is no vegetable fats other than cocoa butter in chocolate .
Who would have believed it ?
In terms of chocolate , as in other areas , different cultures and traditions exist .
Everyone has different tastes .
In addition to the ' product quality and taste ' aspect there is , of course , the ' development policy ' aspect .
The situation being as it is , I would have preferred the common position to be rejected in the same way that I prefer good handmade chocolate to an industrial product which is currently unverifiable .
Unfortunately , a small majority in this House has failed to ensure that consumers can enjoy real chocolate .
. ( PT ) We fundamentally reject the principle of allowing chocolate to be produced throughout the Member States using a percentage of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter .
This is for reasons connected with safeguarding the legitimate interests of cocoa-producing countries and also reasons relating to consumer protection .
It is quite clear that a step of this kind would inevitably have an adverse effect on cocoa-producing countries .
Furthermore , and this is the key reason for our views , consideration has not even been given to a study on the impact of such a measure on developing countries that produce cocoa .
This directive alters the very definition of chocolate which should , in our opinion , be made from cocoa butter and beans .
We do not have the right to mislead the consumer by using the name ' chocolate ' to designate products which are not necessarily made from cocoa .
Consumers require clear and specific information .
They should no longer be deceived .
Today ' s vote went beyond the problem of chocolate alone and has threatened the confidence of our fellow citizens .
This is why I voted for all the amendments which aimed to improve this directive and which were tabled by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy .
- ( DA ) The basis for prosperity in the EU is competition .
And the intention in adopting a new directive on chocolate products is precisely to improve competition in the EU .
With regard to food policy and consumer protection , we must be very careful .
But this is not a question of health or environmental protection .
Seen from the consumers ' point of view , it is exclusively a question of taste .
It cannot therefore be right for politicians to decide what consumers should be entitled to choose between .
Products should be put on sale , and it should be clear what they contain , but otherwise we must rely upon consumers ' own judgement .
We can hardly do otherwise .
Consumers should find out for themselves what tastes best .
If , today , we are obliged to note considerable opposition to the proposal here in Parliament , this cannot be viewed as anything other than an attempt on the part of certain chocolate manufacturers to curb competition .
If one looks at where the opposition is coming from , it is also clear that it crosses the Group divide and comes mainly from those countries which are already using current rules to protect their chocolate industries .
Where a clear and unambiguous labelling obligation would have been sufficient to allow the marketing of all the types of chocolate available in Europe , one of those grotesque compromises at which we are so adept has been proposed .
Although the construction of the internal market is a way to strengthen Europe in the face of world competition , this must not lead to a totalitarian dogma and meddling at all levels of our home life .
In particular , the diversity of Europe ' s gastronomy and food customs is part of its heritage and culture , if only at the cost of local specialities foreign to the internal market .
The people of Europe do not want this to be a place with standardised consumers living in a large uniform internal market .
They expect major political ambition from Europe , not punctilious regulations of secondary importance .
The misadventures of the new ' chocolate directive ' primarily illustrate the extraordinary weight and slowness of the Community ' s legislative process .
Has such a long process at least resulted in a practical text ?
The answer is clearly no .
The new directive does not meet any of the relevant needs .
The 1973 directive clearly and unambiguously defined chocolate as a product made with sugar and cocoa .
To take account of the food customs of certain northern countries , derogations were specified .
The situation was therefore satisfactory .
So why change it ?
Why , under the pretext of ' simplification ' , has it actually been attempted to subvert the 1973 directive ?
Might the rest of the acquis communautaire no longer be untouchable ?
A site located in France , for example , cannot produce chocolate which does not meet the French standards . These stipulate that chocolate cannot contain vegetable fats other than cocoa butter .
However , these multinationals particularly want to minimise the cost of their raw materials and do not care that this will be at the cost of a change in the composition of chocolate .
Cocoa butter represents 8 to 9 % of the total price of chocolate .
Shea butter costs a third of the price of cocoa butter and palm oil butter is ten times cheaper .
By adopting a list of alternatives to cocoa butter and by specifying a percentage , this new directive is opening the door to further changes and this is the heart of the matter .
Tomorrow , the percentage will simply have to be increased and then soya , for example , could be added to the vegetable fats proposed today .
Will this at least increase the level of requirements and quality for all Member States ?
Not at all .
In fact , quite the contrary .
As usual , harmonisation is occurring at the lowest common denominator .
It is the lowest quality level which will be generalised in order to ultimately impose a standardised Euro-taste , to the detriment of taste quality .
Will the new text at least allow the consumer to easily distinguish between true and imitation chocolate ?
The Commission is therefore setting a percentage which it knows is unverifiable .
This is deceitful .
The text also contains dishonest provisions in terms of labelling .
As this amendment was not retained by the Council , the consumer will not be correctly informed .
In all countries and for all consumers with a taste for real chocolate , the name ' chocolate ' can now legally cover a completely different product .
Chocolate lovers , religiously savour your next Easter eggs !
This will be the last time you can be sure that they have been made with real pre-harmonisation chocolate .
What will be next after chocolate ?
When labelling comes in the door , sense flies out the window ...
This is a distinctive label used throughout Europe which we want to imbue with renewed vigour .
Like the French NF Environnement mark , this label is voluntary which means that it is up to manufacturers to apply for it .
It is based on the principle of a global approach which takes account of the whole life cycle of the product .
However , we must not cast aside all the national logos .
Consumers and buyers have their own codes and have built up their confidence on the logos which they know .
Any attempt to replace the national logos would end up once again confusing the people of Europe who are lost among a forest of markings including lists of ingredients , quality labels , logos and references to regions .
You could almost imagine yourself faced with a bar of chocolate !
As our main goal is to help SMEs gain access to these essential Community eco-labels , we support the rapporteur .
- Madam President , I wholeheartedly support Europe 's moves to become an eco-friendly continent .
This measure is yet further proof of the EU 's commitment to greening up its act .
Since 1992 , the Euro-Flower logo has become a hallmark of environmentally-friendly products , ranging from washing machines to writing paper .
However , consumers ' enthusiasm for green goods has yet to be matched by industry .
The measures contained in this 3-year strategy , however , should hopefully bring manufacturers on board .
In the fight to clean up our planet , Britain 's Labour Government has , of course , been at the forefront .
At Kyoto , for example , Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott secured , against the odds , an agreement to cut global emissions .
Britain is already well on the way to achieving its target of cutting carbon dioxide emissions by 20 % by 2010 .
Not content with that , the Government has recently raised the target to 60-70 % by 2050 .
This House should challenge other Member States to match Britain 's example .
They will get their chance to pick up the gauntlet at the forthcoming Kyoto follow-up Conference in The Hague this November .
Of course , protecting the planet means much more than just cleaning up the atmosphere .
It means protecting the natural environment on the ground too .
Again , Britain 's Labour Government is leading the way .
Its recent Wildlife Bill , for example , will give greater protection to endangered species than ever before .
Furthermore , ' right to roam ' legislation will give the British public the freedom to enjoy and appreciate our beautiful countryside .
Madam President , coherent action is urgently required at local , national and European levels to clean up our land , sea and air .
The Euro-Flower is just one element of the broader environmental strategy that is needed to save our planet .
Our citizens want to see concrete action .
They do not want to see mere hot air from politicians , which just adds to global warming .
By harnessing Euro-Flower power , we can all contribute to a cleaner , greener world .
Recommendation for second reading of the Blokland report ( A5-0056 / 2000 )
- Blokland rightly raises serious concerns regarding waste disposal , including incineration .
Coming from a country with over 90 % landfill use , I face the conclusion that properly controlled incineration is both necessary and inevitable .
Commitment by the Irish Government to serious recycling and separation of waste is far from evident .
Separation of waste , including use of organic waste for composting , must be a priority in any waste strategy .
Waste management is a very complex issue subject to extensive lobbying .
This is why the European Union has adopted a comprehensive strategy to tackle this major environmental and health challenge .
The directive before us today is part of this strategy as it aims to regulate the thermal treatment of hazardous or non-hazardous waste .
I myself have always been doubtful about the incineration of hazardous waste being dealt with in the same legislation as the incineration of non-hazardous waste .
I therefore raised my concerns and questions at first reading .
Regrettably , in my opinion , a majority has approved co-incineration .
This is why I am now fighting for measures to be adopted in order to guarantee that emission standards for hazardous waste will not be diluted .
Everyone knows that the volume of waste to be incinerated in the European Union is set to increase .
Thirty-one million tonnes of municipal waste were incinerated in 1990 and this figure will be in excess of 56 million this year .
There are several reasons for this , including the increase in the volume of waste produced and the fall in the quantity of waste sent to landfills .
It is well known that the incineration of waste causes emissions of substances which seriously pollute the air , soil and water and which are therefore dangerous to health .
The pollutants emitted depend both on the nature of the waste to be treated and the technologies used to treat this waste .
This is why our concerns focus on the emissions of heavy metals , dioxins and furanes .
The debate has particularly crystallised around co-incineration plants .
These use hazardous waste as fuel for the production of energy or physical elements .
Although the provisions of the applicable directives impose a maximum limit of 40 % of hazardous waste in the fuel used , this percentage is too high !
These plants must be subject to very strict control standards , at least as strict as those imposed on incinerators .
In addition , the generalised use of this hazardous waste must not lead to the production of this waste becoming acceptable .
We are at great risk of being told in the future that , as investments have been made to build these co-incinerators , we must now make these profitable !
I firmly reject these arguments in advance as they will lead to an increase in the volume of hazardous waste being transported with all the risks which this entails for the environment and safety .
- The European Union has been at the forefront in devising new waste management strategies in recent years .
This directive also seeks to control the discharge of waste into our water systems .
This report is now before us at second reading .
I believe that this is a particularly sensible proposal .
It is very important that the European Union is very active in putting in place new waste management proposals .
Waste in Europe has been generated at a rate of over 1kg per person per day . 2 billion tonnes of waste are being generated within the EU each year .
There is a growing concern about the environmental consequences of landfill sites in general .
Nothing less than a major shift from reliance on landfill sites to more integrated waste management plans will suffice .
The European Union fully supports the strict , ambitious but attainable recycling and recovery targets that have been laid down by the Irish Government .
These targets , which are to be achieved over the next fifteen years , include the following : -
 A diversion of 50 % of overall household waste from landfill sites .
 A minimum 65 % reduction in bio-degradable waste presently consigned for landfill sites .
 The development of waste recovery facilities , employing environmentally beneficial technologies capable of treating up to 300 000 tonnes of bio-degradable waste per annum .
All these measures reflect changing public opinions on the issue of waste management .
The day of landfill sites is now coming to an end and they must be replaced by more environmentally beneficial technologies .
There is unanimous support for this position across all the fifteen Member States of the European Union .
. ( FR ) The enormous volume of waste generated by our industrialised urban societies is undoubtedly one of the major challenges to be overcome by the European Union in the 21st century .
Imperceptibly , the planet is gradually being swamped with waste and each year another 2 billion tonnes are produced by the Member States .
On environmental matters , it is by doing what is immediately possible that we will have a chance of achieving what is desirable in the long term .
This is why the UEN Group has not supported the amendments which are inapplicable in our Member States and whose anticipated economic consequences could prove to be very harmful .
Otherwise , as a local elected representative , I hope that the merger and simplification of the Community directives will clarify and streamline the regulatory framework in which the departmental waste management plans must be established .
Furthermore , if this directive were to come into force immediately , rather than in 2005 as is unfortunately the case , it would be virtually impossible for the Portuguese Government to continue with its co-incineration strategy .
Accordingly , although I would have liked to go further with restrictions on incineration and co-incineration processes , I am nevertheless delighted with what has been achieved , given that this directive :
1 . Establishes stricter limit values for emissions , in particular those of carbon oxides and particulates .
2 . Will put incineration and co-incineration plants on the same footing in terms of limit values , removing the special status granted to co-incineration plants .
3 . States without any doubt whatsoever that incineration and co-incineration may only be used as a last resort , once all other technical avenues have been explored .
4 . Sets extremely rigid conditions for overall waste management and for the siting and size of incineration and co-incineration plants , which must be complied with before permission can be granted to any authority .
5 . Increases the relevant authorities ' powers of intervention in case of non-compliance with limit values at installations .
6 . Drastically reduces the scope for using the end waste from incineration and co-incineration , particularly in civil engineering projects .
7 . Makes continuous sampling of dioxins a compulsory requirement in incineration and co-incineration processes .
8 . Increases the role of the public in decision making on the siting of installations .
9 . Makes it compulsory to publish an annual environmental report on compliance with limit values .
10 . Considerably limits the present derogations for cement kilns .
11 . For the first time sets a limit value for emissions of ammonia , NH3 , in view of the atmospheric acidification caused by this chemical product .
The proposed directive on waste incineration is a complex and technical document whose environmental and economic implications must be carefully considered .
At first reading the European Parliament really made its mark on the issue by proposing the merger of two directives on the incineration of domestic waste and the incineration of hazardous waste .
I now believe that the common position submitted by the Council is a very good compromise which I can support .
However , I must make one specific point about co-incineration in cement works and justify my vote against two amendments .
I voted against the first part of Amendment No 25 , amending Annex II , which sets emission limit values for the cement industry and in particular the value of 15 mg / m3 for dust .
The majority of the Member States currently have limit values of 50 mg / m3 .
In a recent cost-benefit analysis , the Commission concluded that values of 30 mg / m3 are the best compromise .
To impose limit values of 15 mg / m3 would involve an excessive environmental cost and would not be profitable .
I also voted against Amendment No 14 on the definition of municipal waste . This amendment reintroduces a definition of mixed municipal waste even though this is already specified in Article 3 ( 3 ) .
Incorrect interpretation of this article could lead to the use of municipal waste in cement kilns being excluded whereas this type of treatment is provided for by the waste plans of several public authorities .
This vote is not at odds with my environmental concerns as co-incineration in cement works is not particularly harmful for the environment . Cement kilns are actually subject to strict emission rules .
Moreover , co-incineration is , in certain cases , an integral part of the waste management policies of certain Member States or regions , under conditions which are both economically and environmentally acceptable .
- ( SV ) More stringent rules for incineration plants are highly desirable .
Plants for unsorted waste require more advanced equipment .
If the same requirements are laid down for all types of incineration plant , the effect could be to hinder the sorting of rubbish and to make recycling and reuse more difficult , including composting organic waste .
We in the Swedish Christian Democratic Party would therefore like to encourage the Commission to pay close attention to these points of view during the continued work on the issues of rubbish and waste .
I studied this report from my standpoint as a mayor because the Commission proposal mainly reinforces current legislation on the incineration of municipal waste .
The directive ' s objective is commendable . It aims to prevent and reduce the negative effects of waste incineration and co-incineration .
However , we cannot support the proposal as it also aims to subject all plants to the same emission standards .
This is not the way to deal with the overcapacity of incinerators in Europe and the rapporteur agrees with this .
Certain waste flows are more easily treated in a co-incineration plant .
With regard to municipal waste , I have several comments to make .
Firstly , confusion should not be allowed about the definition of ' mixed municipal waste ' in the context of co-incineration .
However , thinking on this issue must be taken into account and research must be continued .
The waste treatment industry will have to be very inventive in the future to avoid actually causing pollution .
We must therefore develop broader waste management strategies and actively encourage research and development in this area which is essential for life and for the future of our local authorities .
- I find it incredible , given the anti-Brussels hysteria of his UKIP allies , that Mr Blokland has managed to produce such an over-regulated monster of a report .
But at least these proposals will allow the anti-European rubbish peddled by Mr Blokland and the UKIP to be disposed of in an environmentally-friendly manner .
The aim of these proposals is to improve air quality and protect human health .
Incineration is often the most effective and safe method of waste disposal .
Sometimes , however , it can release dangerous chemicals , such as dioxins , into the atmosphere .
It is therefore vital that these by-products are monitored and prevented from escaping into the environment .
The technology for cleaning up fumes from waste incineration plants already exists .
We just need to make sure that it is used .
The sensible measures put forward by the Commission should encourage the utilisation of this technology .
I find the UKIP 's hypocrisy breathtaking .
I challenge the UKIP to explain to their own supporters how they can be allied to such an obvious supporter of EU over-regulation .
While pretending to be the Eurocrat 's foe , they are clearly , in fact , the Eurocrat 's friend .
I fear that cleaning up the environment may prove to be a doddle compared to the task of persuading the UKIP to clean up its act .
The losers , sadly , will be our own citizens .
If we are to believe the texts of the Ancients , waste disposal was a problem in ancient Rome even though , since then , this waste has made generations of archaeologists very happy .
At the time the majority of the waste was biodegradable which is far from being the case today .
We have just been talking about chocolate .
We are facing an enormous challenge in terms of waste management .
However , I believe that some countries are not prepared for this either practically or theoretically .
One-third of domestic and similar waste treated by French disposal plants is currently handled by three hundred incinerators .
This incineration generates polluting emissions of dust , metals and dioxins which must be controlled using a smoke treatment system .
The regulations on the limitation of discharges are gradually being reinforced .
Clearly , action is needed to ensure that the rules are respected because health and the environment must be protected . However , in terms of co-incineration , the scope and definition of these plants should not be altered .
Amendments to the legislation on co-incinerators or the specific treatment of hazardous waste risk creating cost distortions or even causing unjustified transportation of waste elsewhere .
My colleagues should also note another point , although this is of less importance .
In my opinion , however , an information campaign is needed following the merger of these directives .
The people of Europe are under the impression that special , hazardous , non-hazardous and municipal waste will all be mixed together and undergo common treatment in the same kiln and in the same plant .
The sorting of waste which they carry out therefore appears to be useless .
We must therefore set up a proper information and explanatory campaign .
Davies report ( A5-0062 / 2000 )
This debate on air quality concerns the particular problem of ozone in ambient air , as set out in the Davies report .
All the experts agree that it is essential to raise standards of air quality so that people throughout the European Union are protected effectively against health risks posed by ozone in ambient air .
The various health effects of ozone include irritation to eyes , nose and throat , difficulty in breathing , coughs and headaches . Ozone also contributes to asthmatic attacks , impaired lung function and increased bronchial reactivity .
In the long term , this can even cause premature ageing of lungs .
These facts are frightening to say the least , which is why I warmly welcome this proposed directive .
It aims to amend the existing Community legislation on ozone in accordance with the requirements of Council Directive 96 / 62 / EC on ambient air quality assessment and management .
It sets long-term objectives and interim target values for ozone in ambient air .
It also introduces a framework of standards to protect human health and the environment .
Finally , it requires Member States to monitor ozone concentrations and to report the results to the public .
The directive will therefore provide a benchmark for the levels of ozone in ambient air .
In setting long-term objectives , the Commission proposes to use the 1997 World Health Organisation air quality guidelines .
The ultimate aim is to prevent these long-term objectives being exceeded and thereby avoid harmful effects on human health and the environment .
However , the Commission ' s proposals do not set a deadline for this to be achieved .
This is to be regretted .
As a first interim step , target values are set .
The aim is to achieve these , as far as possible , by 2010 .
These are also based on the WHO guidelines , but it is accepted that these will be exceeded on a number of days each year .
It must be pointed out that the Commission proposal does not take account of any changes which may result from the Community ' s climate change commitments .
These currently call for an 8 % reduction in a range of greenhouse gases .
Success in meeting these commitments should enable Member States to be more ambitious regarding target values for the reduction of ozone levels .
Myller report ( A5-0063 / 2000 )
We are today debating a legislative proposal which affects us all directly as it aims to improve ambient air quality .
This proposed directive concerns national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants and comes under the framework directive on air quality .
It is part of the Community ' s fifth Environmental Action Programme or EAP .
The ceilings indicated in this text must be complied with by 2010 at the latest .
Member States are therefore required to draw up programmes for the progressive reduction of their annual national emissions and report these to the Commission before the end of 2002 .
The programmes are to be updated and revised by 2006 .
Member States are also required to prepare , and regularly update , national emission inventories and emission projections for 2010 for SO2 , NOx , VOCs and NH3 .
These inventories and projections must be reported to the Commission each year .
The rapporteur has proposed amendments to reinforce this proposal .
In particular , she suggests setting stricter standards for emissions of the four pollutants in question .
In principle I can only agree with these proposals .
When it comes to protecting health and the environment we must be ambitious if we really want to improve the situation .
However , setting the standards too high can be counterproductive .
This is why I believe that at the moment we should keep to the objectives set in the international conventions . These ceilings can , of course , be revised in light of future progress .
The report also asks the Commission to propose new amendments to the directive by 2004 .
The Commission could , in this way , revise the ceilings set in the text , the interim environmental targets and the new measures adopted to ensure respect for these ceilings .
These amendments could ensure that the directive is brought into line with technical and scientific developments and would allow the objectives to potentially be achieved by 2010 .
I feel this is a good compromise .
The rapporteur also proposes setting target dates for achieving these objectives . This is essential .
Without compulsory deadlines , texts are all too often simply declarations of intent which achieve nothing .
In the same respect , penalties applicable to infringements of the directive ' s provisions must be established as quickly as possible .
We are in favour of the EU creating fixed limit values in connection with the environment by means of framework legislation , as most environmental problems are general and transnational .
Each Member State has different traditions and requirements , which is why the Member States themselves should be responsible for implementation , ensuring that the common goals can be achieved in a satisfactory way .
Motion for a resolution on the Lisbon European Council
Despite current growth , job creation in Europe is notoriously inadequate .
Those jobs which are created tend to be precarious , particularly where they involve women and young people .
We must move away from simple declarations of intent , no matter how positive they may be .
In view of the extremely high social expectations , we must urgently define measurable and verifiable objectives .
What I would have liked to see was a commitment on the proposals indicated in my Group ' s motion such as :
The introduction of a process for reducing working time without any loss of wages or flexibility ;
A review of the directives on Euroworks councils and collective redundancies to reinforce the rights and powers of employees and their trade unions , particularly in the event of mergers and restructuring ;
The establishment at Community level of taxation on speculative capital movements and reinforcement of the fight against fraud and tax evasion .
For all these reasons we will vote against the joint motion .
This initiative is to be congratulated .
Unemployment and the resulting poverty and social exclusion are scourges which we must tackle head-on .
The preparation of a coherent and coordinated strategy involving all the Member States is therefore essential .
We must firstly set ambitious objectives .
Those indicated in the Portuguese presidency ' s document are the return to full employment , stable growth , a genuine process of social cohesion , equal opportunities and the fight against poverty .
As underlined by the President-in-Office of the Council , Mr Guterres , we were able to coordinate our economic policies to launch the euro .
The European Union must now accept the challenge and proceed in a similar fashion by proposing guidelines for the policy on employment and social inclusion .
I also welcome the idea of setting quantified objectives and benchmarks , in particular an annual average growth rate in the EU of 3 % and a level of employment of 70 % .
The presidency ' s document also stresses the necessary reinforcement of social convergence and the modernisation of our social protection systems .
The essential condition is clearly to guarantee a high level of employment .
This requires the creation of jobs , not just any jobs , but quality jobs , particularly in the service sector .
It also involves keeping jobs in Europe , given that the recent trend has been mass and systematic redundancies .
This means that the workforce has to adapt to the new information technologies .
I therefore broadly support this programme .
I hope these objectives will lead , during the Lisbon Summit , to specific and ambitious measures which can meet the legitimate expectations of the male and female citizens of Europe .
In fact , what the economic and social policy guidelines are promoting , what they are striving for in practice , is a minimum level of poverty , not a minimum level of prosperity for workers .
You will find them fighting for a social , democratic , mutually supportive Europe , a workers ' Europe , a Europe of the people , and you will find us by their side , fighting with them .
( The sitting was suspended at 1.35 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m. )
Human rights , racism , xenophobia and antisemitism ( continuation )
Ladies and gentlemen , the next item is the continuation of the joint debate on four reports on human rights , racism , xenophobia and antisemitism .
Madam President , I should like to expressly thank Mr Belder for his report .
Racism , xenophobia and antisemitism are a depressing problem , including within the European Union .
Fighting them is one of the common goals of almost every political group in this House .
This House is prepared to exercise diplomatic restraint in many areas , but not on this question .
And rightly so .
Mr Belder knows that I and the committee wished to quote the specifics of individual problems in candidate countries .
A number of proposed amendments by Baroness Ludford attempt to rectify this and I shall support them .
The way in which the social causes of racism in candidate countries and the highly significant social and employment policy consequences of a consistent anti-racist policy have been dealt with appears to me to be too general .
The fact that Mr Belder was prepared to clearly address the question of antisemitism is one of the most important results of the discussion process and I again extend my thanks to Mr Belder .
There is almost a total lack of analytical appraisal or special programmes to combat it .
And as far as the Commission programmes in the candidate countries are concerned , Commissioner , the word " almost " can be dispensed with .
I consider this an unacceptable oversight and I therefore refer this question to you specifically .
Antisemitism is , without doubt , widespread ; often it is latent , which complicates the issue .
This morning in this House we were witness to one of its most repulsive forms , when the age-old assertion that the Jews themselves are responsible for antisemitism was repeated .
This debate should therefore be a separate and very , very specific task for us and the Commission .
Madam President , the presentation by the Council of a first EU annual report on human rights was a welcome contribution to the on-going debate .
In particular I welcome the information it contains regarding the EU-China human rights dialogue .
Too often in the past EU Member States have allowed themselves to be blackmailed by China .
Capitulating to China was both immoral and cowardly .
It was immoral to extend greater priority to the importance of trade interests over human rights and is in marked contrast to our approach in relation to the bilateral trade agreements we have with developing countries .
It was cowardly also .
History has consistently shown that the correct approach is to stand up to a bully .
Attempts to compromise are always interpreted as weakness by bullies , and China is such a bully .
We see this in its response to legitimate international concerns about its human rights record .
It treats the views of the outside world with contempt .
We witnessed it again at last week 's conference of the National People 's Congress in Beijing .
Its warmongering tone in relation to Taiwan is unacceptable and is a direct interference in Taiwan 's presidential election .
Its arrogance in relation to its treatment of Falun Gong practitioners and dissidents also cannot be tolerated .
In Geneva , and elsewhere , the EU should take every opportunity in a united way to express its displeasure .
While I strongly support China 's admission to the WTO , we should give China a dose of its own medicine .
We should use these negotiations as a means of leverage to ensure that China not only listens to EU concerns about its continued abuse of human rights but that it also takes action to improve its record .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , if we are to reinforce the protection of human rights in the European Union , we must firstly concern ourselves with the most vulnerable , i.e. essentially , the poorest .
The most basic violation of human rights is the denial of each individual ' s right to live decently . Respect for human dignity must be our guide .
The aim is to create acceptable living conditions for all .
Everyone must be protected from poverty and exclusion .
Everyone is entitled to education , culture and health .
Everyone is entitled to decent housing and an income which allows them to live honourably .
We must declare that poverty will not be tolerated .
We must declare that everyone is entitled to their physical and mental integrity and that this integrity involves the right to a decent life .
Could the idea of fraternity become the key concept for the 21st century ?
Everyone has in them the enduring need to dream and through fraternity we could meet our main expectations for the poorest in society .
Fraternity gives meaning to solidarity , rejects exclusion and solitude , and ensures respect for differences .
Fraternity must guarantee the rights of the poorest .
Our century will be a century of progress in which the wildest utopian ideals may be realised .
Fraternity is one of these ideals and together , ladies and gentlemen , we can achieve it .
I would like to compliment the President on the wise decision to take these four reports together .
And we still have a long way to go as regards violence by the police and in prisons , and in combating racism and xenophobia .
Madam President , even to a slightly unprejudiced eye , there is clearly no trace of racism down the broad middle of this House .
Even if we disagree on a report on racism , the reasons lie not in racism in Parliament but in the report itself .
And it is precisely on these points that this report is a dishonest and sorry effort and I make no bones about the fact .
The fight against racism , to which we are all committed , is turned into small political currency and abused , which is why we are unable to vote for the report in its present form .
I stand firmly against the way in which racism has been played down , as we have said , to make it a subject of political debate .
That is our grave criticism of the approach taken in this report .
We are all against racism and we all have a contribution to make .
There should be a broad consensus on this in this House .
I believe it has a place here .
What was happening 15 years ago in Austria was that Mr Haider was actually persecuting the Slovene-speaking minority there .
Very few of us wanted to stand up and say anything at the time .
We need to tell the Estonians and the Latvians that , if they continue that treatment , their prospects of joining the European Union will be that much less .
Madam President , both I and my Group enthusiastically support Mr Haarder ' s human rights report because we have found a very good line in it and there are numerous reasons for doing so .
Allow me to tell you which points we do not accept and why .
They are the points which fall outside the stated report period of 1997 / 98 .
And when Sarah Ludford says the report refers to the year 2000 , then she must be clairvoyant because it has only just begun .
Secondly , we are against all the points which fly in the face of the basic principle of solidarity .
Mr Nassauer has already pointed out the fact that intervention in the right to hold public office has been called for here .
Has the author ever tried to enter public office in Morocco for example ?
The question of recruitment to public office in a Member State or to the police is exclusively a matter for that Member State .
Thirdly , matters are addressed which have no place in this report , such as the voting rights of third country nationals in European elections or local elections .
I consider this last point to be very important .
These are actions which , in the final analysis , are directed against young people , the economy , sport and the people of my country , and they have no place in this report .
The report does not contain what the title promises .
Madam President , thanks are due to Mr Haarder for a basically splendid piece of work .
There is , nonetheless , one point on which I have to say that I disagree with the rapporteur .
I believed and hoped that I could declare myself in agreement with Mr Haarder in emphasising the individual ' s right to membership of trade unions .
When , however , the report is read in other languages , it can be seen that Mr Haarder has not grown wiser . Either that , or he is hiding it very well .
Madam President , I notice that you have not called Mr Hernndez Mollar , who had asked me to speak on his behalf .
I will therefore present Mr Hernndez Mollar ' s intervention .
Madam President , the debate on xenophobia and racism is always of great importance , politically and socially .
The Ludford report contains points which are highly acceptable and which any democrat can and must ratify , but also contains other points which are less than rigorous from a political and even from a legal point of view .
European citizenship is an abstract concept which lacks any legal form .
The Member States regulate the political rights of their citizens in accordance with their own democratic laws , as also happens in many of the countries of origin of the citizens who emigrate to the European Union .
It would be impossible to comply with a proposal of this type and I therefore ask Mrs Ludford to withdraw it so that we can vote in favour of her report .
That was Mr Hernndez Mollar ' s intervention .
I will now begin my own , Madam President .
The existence of a panoply of fundamental civil , economic , social and political rights , fully guaranteed by constitutional legislation and by public authorities , is one of the essential elements of modern Western society .
The European Union has always considered the respect for fundamental human rights to be one of the essential principles of its founding spirit and has engraved this on the frontispiece of its founding Treaties .
However , that firm and unequivocal will must be exercised in a manner which is legally rigorous and , above all , based on common sense .
The nationals of non-EU states who live in the Union must be treated on an equal footing with the citizens of the Member States with regard to access to education , health and social protection .
This must be done whilst respecting their specific religious beliefs and cultural characteristics .
The tiniest hint of racism , intolerance or xenophobia must be eradicated in any Member State in which it may occur .
However , the administrative status of the resident is not the same as the political status of the citizen .
However , full political citizenship must be acquired in accordance with the laws of each Member State .
Many of the tragedies of the twentieth century in Europe have resulted from ignoring this wise advice .
Let us allow Renan to refresh our memories , but let us not indulge in excesses which are less than rational and of dubious morality .
Madam President , I would like to express my appreciation for Mr Belder ' s report , which is also the topic of my contribution today .
The report raises many relevant points .
Many indeed , such as the issue of racism and discrimination in the candidate countries , require a great deal of attention .
However , in my contribution , I would like to home in on the predicament of the Roma people , otherwise known as gypsies .
Many Roma in the candidate Member States live in extremely abject conditions .
They are frequently at the receiving end of all kinds of discrimination .
Under the communist regime , they were subjected to an assimilation policy . After this , after 1989 , they were more or less left to fend for themselves .
For a long time , little attention was given to their predicament , but fortunately , the Council of Europe was the first to raise the alarm .
In the light of enlargement , the Commission has now also accorded their problem priority status , and rightly so .
Many governments in the candidate Member States concerned have also become active on this score , and many of us have noticed the sudden influx of gypsy groups into a number of Member States .
We want the European Union to get more directly involved in order to address the problems of the Roma .
Not only the European Commission but also this Parliament would do well to pay a lot more attention to this .
This should , first and foremost , be placed within a broader context .
We should not just aim to combat discrimination and change people ' s mentality .
We also need to address the causes of discrimination .
Regional developments and a sound social policy are indispensable tools in this .
Roma often live in areas where everyone is struggling .
We want to adopt an approach from a local perspective .
Local communities and local governments play a key role in solving the problems of the Roma .
This is the level at which improvement programmes need to be drawn up in the areas of education , housing and employment . They must be organised in such a way as to ensure that the entire population benefits .
At the same time , local cooperation is an effective tool against prejudice and discrimination .
Only at a local level can the negative cycle of disadvantage and discrimination be broken .
The Roma ' s own contribution is also important . As far as I am concerned , this too is a key word .
Roma need to be able to stand up for themselves more .
They need to become directly involved and given co-responsibility in order to improve their conditions .
In my opinion , official recognition of the Roma as a minority could help them to achieve more political independence .
In addition , there is a need for more specific action aimed at changing people ' s mentality .
The tendency to discriminate is often deep-rooted , even at government level .
This needs to be given special attention .
I also advocate sound cooperation between the European Union and the Council of Europe .
We should make better use of the expertise developed within these circles .
Finally , I would like to underline that , more than anything , there is a great need for tangible results in the short term .
Many campaigns are being launched with a great deal of good will and the European Union is very active too .
This is praiseworthy in itself .
Some investments require a lot of time and it takes a long time before they take effect , but other aspects , such as housing and tackling the employment issues , can yield tangible results sooner .
We must address the problems facing the Roma in the candidate Member States themselves , which is , after all , where they live .
In fact , we should do this as soon as possible in order to avoid this problem becoming our problem in six years or so .
Mr President , human rights , fundamental freedoms and the rule of law are the alpha and omega of any political system .
We take them for granted , but it appears that in our ultra-civilised Europe they are not always observed .
Mr Haarder has described the situation within the 15 Member States , and the implication is that there is certainly much work still to be done .
For example , it is an inadmissible , almost bewildering fact that , even today , some countries are denounced by Amnesty International for failure to respect the most basic human rights .
It is absurd that some states , including , sadly , my native country , are being condemned by the European Court of Human Rights over the exaggerated length of their legal proceedings .
The fact that the institution of exile is still in force in some Member States is incompatible with all the principles of human rights .
However , where there is political responsibility this should not be a problem .
We must overcome this and incite our governments to be European through and through .
I am not the first person to say this : the European Union is not , cannot and must not be a purely economic union .
The European Union is something much greater than that ; it has a common origin and a dream which we must fight to realise , and civil rights are an integral part of that fight .
Mr President , we might call today ' s sitting a sitting in celebration of human rights .
Those with ulterior motives might say that Europe is engaging in self-flagellation .
I believe that Europe is reviving its hopes and its prospects .
Human rights issues spearhead and underpin the development of Europe .
And when it comes to human rights , we must never ever make concessions .
We demand various criteria of the countries which will accede and of other countries , wherever they may be .
The death penalty is an example .
And yet we have an ally , America , in which the death penalty both exists and is used .
All four reports on which we shall be voting are good reports .
They need some improvement and I think that the entire House will help without any expediency or ulterior motive .
In particular , Mr Belder ' s report on candidate countries is a very good report and I hope that , in the end , it will be even better .
I am tempted for the sake of quality , and because I wish to participate and because I agree , to read two paragraphs , two proposals relating to two candidate countries .
Cyprus - Cyprus satisfies the Copenhagen criteria .
In passing , it should be said that there has been no progress in resolving the political partition of the island .
Turkey - The Commission report notes no progress on the fundamental Kurdish issue .
In short , Turkey still fails to satisfy the Copenhagen criteria .
We are in favour of Turkey ' s joining the European Union .
However , we must not make concessions on questions of principle for anyone .
It is based on fundamental European values which , per se , vehemently oppose racism , xenophobia and antisemitism .
I think that only if we base our position on these fundamental values inside the European Union are we entitled to criticise others outside the Union , in places where these fundamental values are violated .
There are various sections of the population in the candidate countries , in the candidate countries , which merit our particular attention .
We must also admit that there is a problem in this regard because the Roma and Sinti themselves have different conceptions of how this integration can function .
But we must help them with training .
The second group which I should like to mention are the Kurds .
Turkey , which is a candidate country even if we are not yet negotiating with it , recognises no minorities , not even the Kurdish minority .
I consider this stance to be wrong and one which contradicts the declarations of the Council of Europe .
I therefore think it extremely important that we help the Kurds gain their rights in a reasonable and peaceful manner .
The Belder report also states this unequivocally .
The third group which I should like to make special mention of is to be found mainly in Estonia and Latvia . I refer to the Russian-speaking minorities .
There are many emotional obstacles to this and yet it is important to take these steps and some have certainly been taken .
The Monitoring Centre for Racism and Xenophobia will open in Vienna on 7 April .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I do not intend this to be a very long speech .
I believe that the debate we have had here today is an extremely important one , and that the various concerns that have been expressed in relation to the various reports have raised some interesting questions .
I have referred to our external presence and to the internal dimension .
A great deal has been said today , either directly or indirectly , about the stance adopted towards Austria .
This was sometimes expressed in a rather emotional way , I might even say in an understandably emotional way , on the part of individuals linked with that country .
Austria has undeniably been a country that has met its European Union obligations .
But we have to recognise one thing that has a significant bearing on how we view the European Union : we are all Austrian citizens .
Today , in the European Union , citizenship means European citizenship .
An Austrian citizen is a Portuguese citizen .
A Portuguese citizen is an Austrian citizen .
This cannot be viewed as a matter of indifference to the other countries .
We are now operating within a European area , a common area within which we regard ourselves as being bound by a basic set of principles , many of which are highlighted in the reports before us here .
That simply is not true .
As I have already said , Austria ' s internal affairs are also the European Union ' s internal affairs .
We believe that political precautions of this kind are possibly the best way of warding off future problems , and in particular the ghosts from the past that may return to haunt us in Europe .
There are naturally some controversial issues in this area , and people may see things in various different lights in different areas .
And there is going to be an interesting test of this , in the form of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of citizens of the European Union .
Furthermore , as regards antidiscrimination and the various forms of discrimination identified in the various reports , a great many differing measures obviously exist .
And we know that even when it comes to internal legislation within our Member States , there are major differences in the way some of these questions are dealt with .
This is a task not just for governments , but also for non-governmental organisations , for social lobbies and for political lobbies .
We need to keep this question on our agenda , and that is the rationale and the significance of this debate .
The measures that have been developed include a set of initiatives connected with the European Year against Racism in 1997 .
I would also like to highlight a very important aspect which we have probably not yet fully taken into account : the role of the new Treaty of Amsterdam in this area .
Our present experience suggests that it would probably be advisable to improve these provisions , that is to improve these articles .
We shall see whether , in the course of the Intergovernmental Conference , we can achieve a consensus that will allow us to make further progress on this matter .
However , I would also like to draw attention to an initiative that will , symbolically , take place in Vienna on 8 April - the launch of the European Monitoring Centre for Racism and Xenophobia .
This essentially represents what we might call the " ethical pillar " of the Union .
Madam President , at the end of this extremely interesting debate perhaps I can explain the division of labour or work-sharing on the Commission 's side .
Let me start with the Malmstrm report .
I think the first annual report of this new European Parliament is thorough and timely .
Timely , because I hope that before the summer break this equally new Commission will adopt a communication on human rights in external policies .
It will cover many of the areas in the report and all the European Parliament 's recommendations provide extremely useful input for our work .
I want to concentrate my initial remarks on women 's and children 's rights , as the rapporteur has chosen to focus on these important objects .
It is a timely choice in view of the Beijing + 5 platform for action this year at the UN General Assembly in New York .
Beijing confirmed that women 's rights are universal human rights and that women have a central role to play in building democratic and just societies .
The European initiative for democracy and human rights reflects this .
Women are explicitly included as a target group for support .
The actions cover a broad sweep of concerns , from women 's participation in decision making in the Balkans to support for female domestic workers in the Ivory Coast .
Issues such as violence against women have been rightly categorised as issues of human rights .
As such , they should be promoted vigorously as part and parcel of our foreign policy and development assistance .
Mrs Malmstrm 's report sets out some of the stark realities of the violence which is perpetrated against women in many forms and at all levels of society .
From the horrors of rape to genital mutilation , from the home to the prison cell .
Our programmes DAPHNE and STOP are the mainstay of the Commission 's response .
DAPHNE has supported the sharing of information and good practice amongst NGOs and Member States through more than 100 transnational projects .
A new DAPHNE programme for 2000-2003 was adopted in December 1999 at a level of EUR 5 m a year .
In response to a European Parliament resolution in 1997 the Commission has conducted an awareness-raising campaign on domestic violence within the Member States .
We should use what we learn during such campaigns and share that knowledge with applicant countries , perhaps in the context of DAPHNE .
I take note of what the report says on the horrific practice of genital mutilation and the lack of data on the subject .
We will look , in the Commission , at ways in which we can contribute to the search for a solution .
The Commission is also working with others to halt the heinous trafficking of women which has been growing in the last few years .
We produced a communication in 1998 on this subject . The focus then was placed on prevention , research , law enforcement , effective sentencing of traffickers and support to victims .
We are working on this , as the honourable Member knows , with NGOs , the OSCE and candidate countries .
A new STOP programme is planned to start from this year and this will be open to accession countries .
Moving on to more general issues , I mentioned the forthcoming communication on human rights and external relations .
My aim is to adopt a more effective and coherent approach to policy and to spending and in particular to improve the management of our programmes in this area .
Human rights projects are very different from projects to build bridges or reinforce primary education .
NGOs and civil society partners are integral to their implementation .
The projects are often carried out in sensitive or dangerous conditions in the field .
The former is clearly as impossible as it would be totally undesirable .
We could not work without NGOs .
We will not , alas , see an overnight change .
This brings me on to the budget and the Parliament 's proposal for a joint declaration on yearly increases in human rights expenditure .
The size of the budget cannot be divorced from the question of our capacity to manage it .
Otherwise we will make too many promises which we simply cannot fulfil and when it comes to supporting NGOs you often operate on a shoestring .
Broken promises can lead rapidly to bankruptcy .
But I want to make this clear : I would like to put myself in a position as soon as I can where we spend every penny and can therefore justify spending a great deal more .
The possibility of creating a human rights agency as foreseen in Vienna and Cologne could help us here .
I believe that such an agency should be operational , not advisory .
I will be exploring this in the communication .
The potential for an agency should also be considered in the context of wider reform of our external assistance and of externalisation as a whole .
I now turn to the issues raised in the Belder report which responds to the Commission ' s communication on countering racism , xenophobia and antisemitism in the candidate countries .
I am responding to this on my own behalf and that of my colleague , Commissioner Verheugen .
I would like to congratulate the authors of the comprehensive report .
I hope this response will set a few pointers for the future .
The fight against racism is an essential element of the Union ' s human rights policies and of the pre-accession strategy .
The compatibility of legislation concerning minorities is raised during the screening process and during bilateral discussions and in association committees .
For example , we have looked at language laws in Lithuania , Estonia and Slovakia , a subject that was raised during the debates , and legislation regarding the Roma in the Czech Republic and Slovakia .
These discussions have produced concrete results .
The second element , our cooperation programmes , include the PHARE national programmes , PHARE Democracy and the MEDA Programme .
Under PHARE , reform of the police , criminal justice and asylum systems has been accorded a high priority in line with the rapporteurs ' proposals .
This reform helps to bring about the necessary changes in attitudes within institutions .
The goal of raising police awareness of racism and xenophobia was also incorporated in the framework of the European curriculum for the training of the police in Central and Eastern Europe .
We will persevere with such measures .
We are also open to opportunities for strengthening them .
One central aim common to the Malmstrm and the Belder reports is the need to build on our relationship with NGOs in candidate countries .
The new Access Programme which replaces the LIEN and Partnership Programmes aims to strengthen civil society .
Finally , on the Roma , whose condition was mentioned by several speakers , the Commission is seeking to bring more coherence to its support for Roma communities .
These reports cover extremely important issues .
I look forward to the European Union taking up these abuses at the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva , which I will attend on 27 March .
I am grateful to Parliament for its timely input .
The Commission and Parliament are well placed to work together on human rights .
We are well placed to give a strong lead to others .
Madam President , I too should like to ask in what capacity you made this statement .
My third comment , if you will allow , is addressed to you , Mr da Costa : what happens in one country of the European Union is of interest to the other countries , that is perfectly obvious .
That is not least precisely why we are members of this European Union and it is to be commended that we obtain information and evince an interest .
Minister , I should like to call on you on behalf of the Austrian delegation to obtain this information , which neither you nor many or , presumably all of the 14 , have , in situ .
It was not right-wing extremists , although , of course , we do unfortunately have them in Austria , perhaps in the order of 3 to 5 % , just as other countries do .
The motives here were different , however , and voters simply overwhelmingly voted the old government and Socialism out in favour of an alternative .
If you wish to pass value judgements here , please ensure that you are in possession of all the facts first and then levy criticism where it is really due and not on the basis of supposition or suspicion .
Madam President , Mr Pirker has not spoken on the agenda .
I should like it recorded that what Mr Pirker has said had nothing to do with the agenda .
I call on the President of the Council on behalf of my Group to continue to be as vigilant and critical of racism and xenophobia as you have demonstrated here , in whatever capacity .
Madam President , I am grateful for this opportunity to clarify once again the capacity in which I made those observations .
Let there be no mistake : the statement by the President of the European Council and Portuguese Prime Minister was made on behalf of the 14 countries in the European Union apart from Austria .
The 14 countries ' three levels of response as regards Austria are therefore bilateral in nature .
The fact that this was channelled through the President of the Council was merely a question of coordinating the joint position of the various countries .
The bilateral sanctions are therefore exactly that . They are not sanctions within the operational framework of the Community .
No formal aspect of the European Union ' s operational framework has come into play during the Portuguese presidency in relation to the Austrian situation .
It was not by chance that the party with the second largest vote in the Austrian elections was not invited to form the government .
It was not by chance that a party that received a larger number of votes was invited to form the government , but that it then passed on to the party with the third largest number of votes .
It was not by chance that the President of the Republic of Austria has obliged the two parties in the coalition government to make a declaration recognising a basic set of principles .
It was not by chance at all !
As regards Austria acting as a full partner within the Community , as it has done up to now , nothing will militate against Austria at Community level .
That is quite clear .
We regret that this is how things have to be and we hope that matters will develop in Austria in such a way that we can act differently .
The Commission is also pleased to note that its views are basically in agreement with those of the European Parliament on the nature and content of this Charter .
This was also the case in yesterday ' s debate on the Duff and Voggenhuber report and it is also true with regard to the conclusions of the report by Mr Haarder whom I warmly congratulate .
The signature of this Convention is certainly compatible with the preparation of a binding Charter of Fundamental Rights .
With regard to the content of the Haarder report , I will particularly concentrate on the aspects which come directly within my area of competence within the Commission .
The conclusions of the Tampere European Council provide a very clear political framework for the EU ' s policy on respecting and promoting migrants ' rights in the broad sense of the term .
I wish to confirm the importance which the Union and its Member States attach to absolute respect for the right to ask for asylum on the basis of a full and comprehensive application of the Geneva Convention .
I must also underline the intention to develop a vigorous policy on the integration of third country nationals legally resident on EU Member State territory .
I therefore share the rapporteur ' s and Parliament ' s concerns .
However , at the same time , the Commission intends , in the autumn , to submit to Parliament a communication on immigration policy in the European Union .
We must review the 1994 communication and update the approach to the questions of immigration policy in the Union in light of the Tampere conclusions .
As for civil justice , the communitisation of several civil justice instruments is an efficient way of ensuring the effective legal consideration of human rights .
The Commission has already proposed communitising all existing conventions not currently in force , particularly the one on the service of documents and the Brussels II Convention and the convention on bankruptcies .
We have also proposed making the very important Brussels Convention of 1968 on Jurisdiction and the Enforcement of Judgements in Civil and Commercial Matters into a regulation .
All these instruments are currently being examined by the Council .
These measures will aim to go beyond the joint action of February 1997 .
They will consist of definitions , charges and penalties in the fight against the trade in human beings for the purposes of sexual exploitation and measures against the sexual exploitation of children .
Turning now to the Ludford report , I very much welcome the opportunity to respond to Parliament ' s report on racism and xenophobia .
The Union ' s commitment to supporting fundamental rights and fighting discrimination was made very clear in the Amsterdam Treaty and this is , for me , a crucial development of the European message .
Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union introduces new powers to react in case of serious and persistent breaches of fundamental rights by a Member State .
That is why we put forward our package of proposals to fight discrimination only two months after taking office last year .
But besides that , I think that in many quarters there is growing recognition of the need for European action against racism .
That is why in the Article 13 proposals we are able to make greater progress , I believe , on racial discrimination than on the other matters .
We felt that it was politically possible .
We sincerely hope that the facts will not deny our hope .
As you know , the package of proposals that the Commission has put forward consists of two directives and an action programme .
The two draft directives provide a legislative framework for legally enforceable rights including provisions on a number of key issues such as protection against harassment , scope for positive action , appropriate remedies and enforcement measures .
The proposed directives are complemented by a proposal for an action programme .
We know that , to combat discrimination , practical action is needed to reach out to people and help change discriminatory attitudes and behaviour on the ground .
Getting the Member States to adopt the anti-discrimination package is now our top priority .
Although it is important , the Article 13 package is only part of an on-going process to develop new ways of tackling racial discrimination .
The Union is committed to mainstreaming the fight against discrimination on the basis of race and ethnic origin , and we recently organised a major conference on this issue .
We intend to use all these instruments to fight discrimination and , as you know , work has also started on the European Charter of Fundamental Rights .
Parliament has a key role to play in this regard .
I will conclude as I have started : the Charter will represent the high priority that the Union as a whole accords to the fight against racism and discrimination and to protection of human rights .
I sincerely hope that , during our debate on this issue next year , we will be congratulating ourselves on achieving , with the Charter , a new tool to fight against racism and xenophobia in the Union .
Madam President , allow me briefly to correct what the President-in-Office of the Council said .
Two heads of government , Mr President-in-Office , have already been reprimanded by their parliaments for the steps which they initiated against Austria .
You therefore had no right to speak on behalf of their countries ; on the contrary , you obviously spoke as the head of a socialist party .
At most , Mr President-in-Office , you can therefore only speak of twelve countries .
Mrs Flemming , the debate on Austria should not be restarted as we have already had an exchange of views on this issue .
I will give the floor to Mr Schulz who wanted to raise a point of order on a personal challenge made in yesterday ' s debate .
Madam President , I seldom make use of these rules but I must do so now for the record .
During the debate , Mr Gollnisch , a member of the French extreme right , attacked me personally .
I should like to state the following for the record : I have nothing to take back as regards my statement that the extreme right is abusing this House for rabble-rousing purposes .
Mr Gollnisch stated for my benefit during his speech that his family , and these were his words , would never accept fascism .
That is where Mr Gollnisch clearly differs from his family , because he himself accepts fascism or , to put it plainly , he is a fascist .
Mr Schulz , we have noted your statement .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon .
Eurodac
The next item is the joint debate on :
Mr President-in-Office of the Council , firstly I would like to thank the Presidency-in-Office of the Council for their high level presence in this House and for their positive attitude .
Last year , this Parliament was consulted twice about the establishment of a system for comparing fingerprints .
In principle , the system is intended to correctly implement the Dublin Convention .
On 13 April 1999 , this Parliament rejected the Council ' s proposal to extend the Eurodac system to illegal immigrants by means of a protocol .
This Parliament was then consulted again in accordance with the provisions of Amsterdam .
We were once again told that this system has to be developed in order to correctly implement the Dublin Convention .
Given that we have been informed that none of our suggestions are going to be accepted , I would like to ask the Council whether it is prepared to hold a genuine dialogue with Parliament .
This is not a trivial question .
We have all managed very well to really work together with you , and the same applies of course to Commissioner Vitorino .
But when it comes to EURODAC , we have a problem .
We here in Parliament have passed a resolution and have made clear why we cannot accept EURODAC in the form which the Council and the Commission wish it to take .
And we have given our reasons .
We have humane reasons , we have reasons when it comes to children , as far as the age limit is concerned ; for example we cannot accept the age limit of 14 .
We highlighted all these problems in a resolution by Parliament .
The question is whether you are willing to lend us an ear when something gives us cause for concern and we urgently need your support .
Mr President , esteemed Commissioners , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , the debate on EURODAC and the implementation of this system is something of a never ending story .
It started back in Dublin in 1990 .
In November 1999 , we here in Parliament , and I assume you too Commissioner , believed that we were on the home stretch and were finally going to be able to implement EURODAC .
That too was a very positive aspect .
Plus , we could then prevent multiple applications for asylum and abuse of the asylum system and this , in turn , would allow us , as it were , to fight illegal immigration indirectly .
In other words , it is , as a whole , a system which must be seen as very positive and absolutely necessary in the context of asylum and immigration policy and the responsibility of the Member States .
My question to you is this : when can we really expect to see the EURODAC system which we have waited so long for up and running ?
How will the system actually be configured ?
This is the sole objective of the regulation , which is an instrument pursuant to the Dublin Convention and which goes no further than that objective .
As regards the role of the European Commission , Article 3 of the proposal for a regulation clearly defines that a Central Unit shall be set up within the Commission .
Furthermore , the Commission has , as we know , started to work on this , and preparations for establishing a Central Unit are under way .
Concerning the role of the European Parliament , I would like to clarify something that can only be the result of a misunderstanding .
Some of Parliament ' s amendments were in fact incorporated into the proposal for a regulation , which is a point I wish to stress .
We hope that this will happen shortly , perhaps even during the Portuguese Presidency .
With regard to the other questions raised here , the first was the minimum age for taking fingerprints , which has been set at 14 years .
I believe that these points mean we can say that this is a safe system without any aspects that could jeopardise citizens ' rights .
Mr President , the statements by the President-in-Office of the Council go straight to the heart of the problem facing us here .
The Social Democrats are divided , I make no bones about the fact , as to how to deal with fingerprinting of under 18-year olds .
Some members are saying we should not fingerprint fourteen- to eighteen-year-olds .
I personally take a different view on this .
You cannot advocate reducing the voting age to sixteen and still say that an eighteen-year-old should not be fingerprinted .
It is incomprehensible .
It comes down to how this system is seen under the rule of law .
However , the Council has not so far given us to understand this in so many words , which is why I listened to what you said with pleasure .
There is a lack of parliamentary scrutiny and no precise guaranteed legal recourse .
It is there in principle , but it has never been accurately described .
The same applies to parliamentary scrutiny .
We therefore say that if implementing powers remain with the Commission , if the regulatory committee is set up under the chairmanship of the Commission , then we agree .
If not , then we must tell the Council that there is no question of the Council taking implementing powers away from the Commission , not if it expects the Community budget to finance the system .
Otherwise Parliament would have to reconsider the budget and the question of financing the system from the community budget .
And believe me , we shall do so .
This is a legally uncertain basis for legislation and that makes me unhappy .
There is also an absence of clarity in the definition of the illegal immigrants to whom the regulation will apply .
Member States are required to fingerprint every third-country national over 14 who is apprehended in connection with the irregular crossing of their border - that is not very precise .
Fingerprinting is a serious invasion of privacy and the compatibility of such requirements with the European Convention on Human Rights needs to be carefully weighed .
I am not sure that this has really been done .
Finally , Mr President , whatever the justification for widening the Eurodac fingerprinting system to some categories of illegal immigrants , I am personally not convinced that this proposal is legally watertight .
Are the Council and the Commission so convinced ?
Mr President , we are beginning to establish a common asylum and immigration law in Europe .
That means that we need instruments to exercise the necessary controls .
A common immigration law means that we have no more internal borders and take responsibility for the people entering the European Union at the external borders .
It is perfectly clear that there is abuse , for example in connection with asylum claims .
The number of people applying for asylum on grounds which have nothing to do with political persecution far outweighs the number of applicants recognised as victims of political persecution .
Abuse in this connection means not only that asylum is sought on non-existent grounds but also that the same applicants make applications on these grounds to several countries .
It has already proven its efficacy on several counts , and it is essential if asylum is to gain acceptance .
We therefore advise the Council in the strongest terms to make its decisions so that EURODAC , the system which allows fingerprinting throughout Europe , can become a fact of life .
That is the task now before the Council .
Ladies and gentlemen , as we have been told by the Council representatives , the amendments adopted by Parliament and included in the text have improved the draft regulation .
However , this is still unacceptable to us as it stigmatises third country nationals and tends to criminalise them .
Moreover , this draft regulation concerns us basically because we feel that it is not needed yet .
It is , we feel , putting the cart before the horse .
We are using and establishing instruments before we have developed a proper harmonised policy on the right to freedom of movement , the right to live as a family and the right of asylum .
We should start by harmonising this policy . We can look at the instruments for implementation and control after that .
Finally , a third point which particularly concerns us is the dismissal of Parliament ' s opinion .
This raises a vital question about the democratic credit granted to the Members of the European Parliament .
It is a shame that we are currently being given the impression that we serve no useful purpose .
We are told that this is just a case of abstention but this is actually the norm as Members ' opinions are not being taken into account .
With Eurodac , the Commission and the Council are , in my view , going too far in their desire to monitor asylum seekers and other citizens of third countries who cross the border into Fortress Europe .
The Eurodac initiative is a series of absurdities and outrages .
To confuse asylum seekers with illegal immigrants contravenes the Convention on Refugees .
Those human and fundamental rights which are so much talked about have no value if we are not in a position to guarantee them in practice , and on behalf of those who penetrate Fortress Europe as well .
What I would therefore urge the Commission and the Council to do is to allow Eurodac to die a peaceful death , as it deserves to do .
In my view , the purpose is to safeguard the rights of asylum seekers , and there is no question of infringing the rights of those who honestly and legitimately request asylum .
I cannot imagine that either the Council or the Commission might wish to construct this system in such a way that it could include restrictions of any kind upon the freedom of law-abiding citizens .
The system is quite in accordance with the creation of an area of freedom and justice , and this is something we support .
I personally am among those who have serious reservations about the system .
Apart from that , the fingerprinting system per se has negative associations with criminal investigations by police authorities and criminal offences .
In all events , the European Parliament is calling for the right to exercise parliamentary scrutiny , in which case the Council and the Commission will have the final word on the matter .
However , I think that the best thing the European Commission and the Council can do is to institute a common asylum and immigration policy based on European humanitarian and democratic values and respect for human rights .
I would also like to confirm , as the representative of the Council has already said , that there is a problem concerning the territorial application of the Eurodac regulation .
I can also confirm that the Council did not ask the Commission to come forward with a revised proposal .
The Commission , in this case , has a different position from both the Council and Parliament .
In its revised proposal the Commission takes on board the solution proposed by Parliament that the data should be deleted from the base as soon as someone is recognised as a refugee .
On the other hand , we did not subscribe to the idea of Parliament about the age limit for fingerprinting .
We considered that 14 years old is an adequate solution .
It is inconceivable for me that my country is one which criminalises all children of 10 years of age just because they are fingerprinted for their first identity card .
I still remember that it was a major event in my youth to get my own identity card .
Nevertheless , I recognise this is a very sensitive question .
Consequently , the Commission believes it should clarify to Parliament two very strict and clear ideas .
First , we should not ask Eurodac to give answers that Eurodac cannot give .
We will come to Parliament and the Council with proposals in the next few months .
We have just achieved , this week , a working document to re-evaluate the Dublin Convention itself .
We want to launch a debate not only on the technical questions of Eurodac but also on the essential solutions to the current Dublin Convention .
We do not want to lose time .
We want to have as broad a picture as possible for all instruments that concern asylum policy .
Where is the point of difference between the Commission and the Council ?
Of course , the Council has been generous in the sense that it has given to the Commission management and the technical functioning of the system .
But there is a point where the Commission does not agree with the Council .
We do not agree that the Council should reserve for itself the powers of implementation of the system .
According to the comitology agreement , there are not sufficient grounds for the Council to reserve the implementing powers for itself rather than delegating them to the Commission .
The proposal of the Commission is that the executive powers , the implementing powers of the system , should be delegated to the Commission , associated with a committee composed of representatives from all Member States .
In our opinion this will be a more coherent and transparent way of managing the system and reinforcing the capability of Parliament to scrutinise the way the Commission manages and develops the Eurodac system .
Maybe through this balanced solution it will be possible to address in a more relaxed and trusting way some of the reservations and political doubts that have been raised by several Members of Parliament during this debate .
Maybe I am being stubborn but this is what I sincerely believe .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The joint debate is closed .
Trade in bovine animals and pigs
Mr President , the point of this report is to allow the situation which prevailed before 1 July 1999 to be reinstated with regard to a provision which has been in force since 1 July 1999 .
The reasons given by the Commission are as follows : the Member States have failed to honour their undertaking to implement a control system and we therefore need to reinstate temporarily the situation which prevailed previously .
Nonetheless , we support the Commission ' s proposal because we consider that the old rules provide a sufficient degree of safety , especially as the Commission is only asking for one year ' s delay .
What you should have done , Commissioner Byrne , was to apply directly for four years , if it was going to take four years , especially as this would have given a sign to the Member States .
If the Commission is leaving itself an escape clause in the form of a three-year postponement , why should we keep to our side of the bargain ?
However , here too we said that we wanted to help out .
We tabled a proposed amendment seeking to reduce this period to two years and it became clear during discussions with the Commission that it too was willing to go along with this proposed amendment .
In the codecision procedure , Article 8 applies under the decision on comitology but not under Article 37 .
We take the view that these two separate submissions are unnecessary and we have tabled a single proposed amendment which I shall read to you .
We are calling for Article 17a to be deleted .
I hope that the Commission is able to accept this amendment .
This is a codecision process .
If the Commission and the Council are able to adopt our amendments , we can shorten the procedure which , given that we have been in a legal grey area since 1 July 1999 , is a reasonable step .
We have already had intensive discussions .
I am curious to see what the outcome of your position will be .
I hope that you will go along with our considerations , as tabled during the discussions , especially as we do not disagree in principle .
Mr President , we are dealing here with amendments to a directive concerning the intra-Community trade in bovine animals and swine .
I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on his report and agreeing very strongly with the remarks he has just made .
In the case of the pig sector the export trade is also suffering because during the past two years the pig industry has experienced acute difficulties .
Indeed in Scotland , my own country , we have witnessed a 25 % reduction in the national herd in the past twelve months .
Unless urgent action is taken by the UK Government , a further 25 % will go within the next few months .
These factors are driving UK pig farmers out of business as more and more cheap imports are sourced by retailers and supermarkets in the UK .
Now it transpires that the situation could deteriorate even further as EU applicant countries from Central and Eastern Europe are projected to increase their net exports of pigmeat by nearly 300 % by the year 2006 .
If Britain is once again to reactivate a dynamic intra-Community trade in bovine animals and swine , then immediate help is required to alleviate the catastrophic situation affecting rural Britain and affecting our pig and beef sectors in particular .
I hope this message is getting through to the British Chancellor of the Exchequer .
Mr President , I also agree with the rapporteur with regard to the basic matters and I can naturally and gladly sympathise with the amendment calling for the transition period to be just two years .
This is a case of negligence on the part of the Member States in putting these matters and the system into effect .
Mr Stevenson mentioned that exports from East Europe are increasing : we are now expanding the area of the EU to include the countries of Eastern Europe .
If our own systems are not in order , how can we expect new Member States to be able to be ready to join our system of agricultural policy ?
For that reason we will have to pay very serious attention in the future to ensuring that Member States really do adopt systems we are here taking joint decisions on .
If that is not the case , there will have to be some form of sanction to ensure these matters are put right .
Mr President , I would like to join previous speakers in congratulating the rapporteur .
He has approached this matter with his usual conviction and great dedication .
I was very pleased to hear him say that there is no real conflict on the principles and objectives of the proposed directive .
I have no doubt that the Commissioner will assist in reaching a satisfactory resolution because both Parliament and the Commission have a common goal in relation to this very important and very crucial area .
In this regard , I support proposals for a further update of the 1997 directive with the caution that it must be done in a sensible way .
We need to eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy while , at the same time , providing total traceability with regard to livestock movement as well as safeguarding public health .
Mr President , this proposal introduces an extension of a current exemption to Directive 64 / 432 applicable to the Spanish Government .
Without this exemption , it would be required to implement a system of veterinary checks for tuberculosis and brucellosis , for each bovine animal exported from its region .
These are already , of course , implemented by many other states .
This exemption has important implications for my country .
Whilst Spain is being given exemption , the British meat industry is suffering heavily from the implementation of an allied directive which requires ruinously expensive veterinary checks in our slaughterhouses .
So rigorous are the requirements for veterinary supervision that we do not have enough British vets to carry out the work .
But instead of giving us more time , the Commission has commenced infringement proceedings .
In order to avoid ending up in the European Court of Justice , my government has had to recruit large numbers of EU vets , 300 of whom come from Spain .
It does not seem right to me that British slaughterhouses should be put through the hoops as a result of the Commission 's action whilst Spain is allowed to default on its obligations .
Why is the Commission giving Spain such an easy time ?
On that basis , I believe that this proposed directive is wrong and I will be voting against it .
Under EU trading rules and in the interest of food safety and consumer confidence in animal health status , annual testing is required to maintain the official TB-free status of our cattle herds .
With a cattle population in Ireland of between 7 and 8 million in recent years , some 10.5 million TB tests have been undertaken annually in some 138 000 herds .
Since 1954 , when our TB scheme was introduced , we have spent in Ireland - a small country - EUR 2.54 billion on TB testing and subsequently brucellosis testing .
I think that stands as a testament to our determination to protect the health status of our cattle herds in Ireland .
Indeed , following disclosure of a reaction , a special contiguous testing programme for herds adjoining restricted herds is operated .
Analysis of test data is carried out on an on-going basis by a special TB investigation unit .
Routine post-mortem examinations are carried out by veterinary surgeons employed by the Department on all animals slaughtered .
Animals which react positively to the TB test are slaughtered .
From the earliest stages in the bovine TB eradication scheme , the Department of Agriculture has recognised the benefit of pre-movement testing , and we request that our particular amendment to the amending directive be looked on favourably .
I understand considerable work has been done on laboratory-based blood tests for TB .
The gamma-interferon test is the most promising of these , and is used under practical field conditions as an adjunct to the tuberculin test in herds .
I would like the Commissioner to indicate where that now stands and how quickly we will be able to have a blood test accepted by the EU .
The TB test we use now is herd-specific , not animal-specific .
We need to get to the stage where blood tests for individual animals will stand up .
Mr President , Commissioner , animal epidemics are not only important economic matters , they are also important from the point of view of consumer policy .
Plus , animal epidemics are again costing us a great deal of money .
The main objective of the directive is to create electronic data bases from which information on bovine animals and pigs , and how they are kept , can be accessed , in order to foster safety and transparency .
These new data bases will form part of the bovine animal labelling and registration system set out in the regulation .
I agree with the rapporteur that Member States are always very slow to implement unwelcome Community legislation , which is why we need to discuss if a 3-year margin is really sensible .
I think that Mr Daul ' s proposed amendment of two years would be an excellent compromise .
I should also like to point out in this connection that , rather than planting more trees , we need to clear the jungle of paragraphs and exemptions .
Absolute account must be taken of the Economic and Social Committee ' s reservations concerning strict limits on exemptions and harmonisation of veterinary legislation .
I therefore fail to understand that some countries are doing their homework while others keep finding excuses and dragging their feet .
All that does is distort competition and , for this reason , I vote that we make the regulation binding on everyone as quickly as possible .
Mr President , I will try to be brief , and I will not use all the time available to me but restrict myself to a short message .
This morning , in this Chamber , one of the Members made the statement that without rules there is no freedom . But I feel that where there are too many rules , freedom can become confusion .
It is my opinion that this measure is suffering from a surfeit of rules . Since 1964 , a series of laws have been adopted on this subject .
Some were implemented , but many were not . The application of some of them was deferred , and others were not adapted by the individual States .
It is very likely that this is caused by difficulties in implementing the directives .
The delays in the adaptation of national legislation may well be due to the expense and tedium involved , as well as the fact that the process is often unproductive .
Mr President , may I first of all thank you for the interest you have devoted to the Commission proposal modifying Directive 64 / 432 on health problems affecting intra-Community trade in bovine animals and swine .
Member States encountered serious trade problems when implementing the updated animal health rules for intra-Community trade laid down in Directive 64 / 432 that came into force on 1 July last year .
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of the European Parliament agreed on two amendments tabled by Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf to the Commission proposal .
The first amendment requires the Member States to ensure full implementation of the directive and the Member States and the Commission to execute controls on the implementation .
The second amendment seeks to restrict the period of application of transitional measures to two years .
The Commission can agree to these Amendments Nos 1 and 2 and must therefore oppose the amendment from Mrs Auroi requesting the deletion of any transitional measures .
However , I regret that I am not in a position to accept written Amendment No 3 which Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf put forward last week .
It modifies the comitology procedure by proposing for implementing measures relating to Article 37 to introduce a management procedure with the right of scrutiny .
But I understand that perhaps Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf may very well have misinterpreted the comitology and that he intends to amend it again during this plenary .
Let me express my surprise and concern about this .
I regret that I cannot accept your new amendment which replaces Article 17 and 17a by a single new article comprising the entire comitology procedure .
I can assure you of the importance that I attach to Parliament 's role in the legislative process , in particular relating to comitology in the codecision procedure .
The overall aim is to achieve quick and efficient results in order to translate policy into legislative acts .
The framework for the comitology procedure is clearly established in the abovementioned Council decision .
The right of scrutiny for the Parliament is foreseen for areas relating to codecision , that is Article 8 .
The amended Directive 64 / 432 is based on Articles 37 and 152 of the Treaty .
The new provision concerning the implementing powers for the Commission to lay down transitional measures may have a direct effect on public health .
This is the reason why the Commission , in this case , proposes Article 17a which refers to a regulatory committee with the right of scrutiny for Parliament .
That is , and I am advised by the legal service , the appropriate way to deal with this .
In any situation where a basic legislative provision envisages amendment by a comitology procedure it must include in the basic provision the actual procedure for the comitology .
That is why each individual provision which envisages such an amendment must identify the procedure quite clearly .
Therefore these measures should not be subject to the right of scrutiny of Parliament .
I will now make some remarks on the implications of the proposed amendment for the institutional balance .
This system aims clearly at defining exactly the respective role of the executive and legislative power in the basic legislative instrument .
The procedure must be made clear in the basic legislative provision requiring to be amended by comitology .
Any wording leaving room for case-by-case negotiation would jeopardise the delicate institutional balance and also seriously undermine transparency .
I note from the document that Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf has circulated this afternoon where he signals his intention to put forward this amendment at this stage .
Let me assure Parliament that it is not my intention , in setting out these two procedures - Articles 17 and 17a - to ensure that the European Parliament does not ask for rights that it does not have .
I am firmly committed to the procedure of codecision and I am firmly committed to the procedures laid down in comitology .
I am firmly committed to the notion that Parliament will have full scrutiny of Commission proposals in circumstances where the legal structures of the European Union , that is the Treaty and the directive , allow for that situation .
To deviate from that is to risk challenge in the European Court , which is something that I must avoid .
Also I must reply to Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf by saying that the two , as he describes , almost identical references to comitology procedure are not in fact identical .
They are quite different and must be dealt with quite separately .
However , it is in the interest of all the institutions that the procedures are clearly defined and transparent for everybody .
Furthermore , adopting this amendment would mean further delaying the legislative procedure which could otherwise be concluded after the first reading .
In conclusion I wish to confirm that I accept Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf 's Amendments Nos 1 and 2 but not the amendment on the comitology procedure that he has suggested this afternoon .
Consequently I cannot accept the amendment of Mrs Auroi either .
You are , of course , quite correct in relation to that .
That agreement , however , was reached with the Council subsequent to the initial drafting of this document .
That is why it has been drafted in this way .
It pre-dates that agreement .
It will be automatically amended in the manner envisaged in the agreement with the Council .
Therefore the concerns that you have in relation to this matter will be remedied automatically in accordance with that agreement .
You also suggested that if the Commission goes along with your suggestion that there will be a shortened procedure .
I have made it clear that I am prepared to respond quickly to any invitation that the committee might wish to extend to me to discuss this important constitutional issue of the interaction between Article 37 and Article 152 .
Mr President , allow me to ask Commissioner Byrne one more question .
The situation is this : you tabled a text which no longer complies with the standard procedure agreed with the Council .
We noticed that .
We then table our proposed amendments , which you consider to be correct as far as principle and procedure are concerned .
Of course , we too consulted our legal service and the text which I read out to you contains precisely this reference to comitology .
The legal text is therefore confirmed .
The Commission is being thick-skinned here ; it is saying no , we stand by our proposal as we have already done on a similar occasion in the past here in Parliament .
Then we can use the simplified procedure .
Generosity is incumbent upon the Commission , not the rapporteur .
It makes no sense to continue with the debate .
I would ask the Commissioner to reply as briefly as possible .
I am afraid that what Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf has said discloses a misunderstanding of the issue .
That gives clarity to the situation . It avoids any exercise of discretion by the Commission or anybody else .
It leaves it clear to anybody reading the text what the appropriate procedure is that will govern this particular situation .
Thank you very much , Commissioner .
The relevant committee will continue the discussion of this issue .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
Question Time ( Council )
The next item is Question Time ( B5-0201 / 2000 ) .
We will examine questions to the Council .
The President-in-Office of the Council , Mr Seixas da Costa , is here with us today .
He has to leave the chamber at 7.00 p.m. and we must therefore try to be very quick and make a collective effort so that we can deal with the majority of the questions .
Question No 1 by ( H-0141 / 00 ) :
During the proceedings , the Swiss Foreign Minister , Mrs Ruth Dreifuss , stated that 300 000 women were victims of trafficking in Europe .
Does the Council concur with that statement ?
Does it consider that the measures it is taking are sufficient to guarantee the safety and dignity of women in Europe in the face of the threat of trafficking ?
What additional measures will it take to counteract a probable deterioration in the situation arising from enlargement , given that the majority of victims are from countries applying for membership of the Union ?
.
Since the adoption of that platform , the European institutions and the Member States have been working hard to ensure that it is applied both at national and European Union level .
Firstly , starting in November 1993 , the Justice and Home Affairs Council agreed a series of recommendations on trade in human beings for prostitution , with a view to combating trafficking in human beings .
Two years after that , this House took on this subject : apart from adopting a number of resolutions , it also produced a report and a resolution which specifically addressed trafficking in human beings .
The importance of this programme should not be underestimated , given that it has helped to finance a great many projects and has proved to be genuinely effective .
A number of conclusions emerged from this work .
Lastly , also in 1996 , the Council approved a common action to combat trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children .
In 1997 , the Ministerial Conference in The Hague resulted in The Hague Ministerial declaration on a European Code of Conduct to prevent and combat trafficking in women for the purpose of sexual exploitation .
Lastly , in 1998 , the Commission adopted a further communication on new measures to combat trafficking in women .
We believe that it is increasingly important to exchange views with other destination countries so as to make a comparative assessment of this phenomenon and to establish a series of harmonised measures for controlling it .
Campaigns are being financed under the PHARE programme in this field , some with support from the International Organisation for Migration .
I would like to make it clear that the Council does not wish to comment on the figure of 300 000 women falling victim to trafficking in Europe given by the Swiss Foreign Minister .
This is why this question needs to be tackled at the highest level , and in particular in conjunction with the United Nations .
To this end , the Council recently adopted a decision authorising the Commission to negotiate on this very protocol .
The Member States of the European Union are also playing a very active role in the meeting of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women which is preparing the United Nations General Assembly Special Session on women .
Mr President-in-Office of the Council , I am truly grateful for your full answer to this question on the programmes which , as you have pointed out , have been implemented .
While adding my thanks to the Council for the earlier answer , I would like to press the Council on a related matter .
Furthermore , the BBC alleged that this was being done with the tacit approval of the Romanian authorities because it was bringing hard currency into Romania .
Will the Council raise this in their dialogue with Romania in relation to Romania 's application for membership of the Community ?
I would like to thank you for your question , Mr Martin , as it gives me an opportunity to discuss an initiative recently taken by the Portuguese presidency in Romania .
I had an opportunity to exchange impressions with the Romanian authorities on this subject less than 10 days ago , and not just on the subject of trafficking in children , but also on the problems of the Roma .
These are issues that the Romanian authorities say they are taking very seriously and , as far as I could ascertain , they consider that they stem from a cultural situation affecting certain sections of the population .
I detected a great commitment by the Romanian authorities to going as far as possible to confront situations of this kind .
Question No 2 by ( H-0148 / 00 ) :
Can the Council rule out the possibility that the facts outlined above constitute serious and persistent violations of fundamental rights as defined in Article 6 of the TEU and , if so , for what reasons ?
If not , does it intend to launch the procedures referred to in Article 7 ?
Mr President , this question has already been broached here more than once .
And this action may lead to the suspension of this Member State ' s rights as a member of the European Union .
I have to say that the facts that Mr Dupuis refers to in his question do not represent a violation of any of the principles mentioned in Article 6 of the Treaty .
This article should not be invoked with a view to any type of interference in the administration of the home affairs of Member States , particular in the field of justice .
They do not bind the Council and they do not affect the free and normal functioning of the Community institutions , in which Austria is still participating in full .
Mr President-in-Office , I think that you have clarified the technical aspects of Articles 6 and 7 very fully indeed .
We still have an almost purely national framework for justice , although certain situations are in practice clearly of a transnational nature .
My question relates to the ad hoc decision by the Prime Minister concerning bilateral sanctions taken without consulting the foreign secretaries of the governments and parliaments of the states of Europe .
All the European Union institutions were bypassed and presented with a fait accompli .
Hence my question : what will happen in the future if we disregard the case of Austria now ?
Will the national Prime Ministers of the countries of Europe pass judgement in future ?
Will a majority of eight votes suffice or will a different majority be needed ?
In what way do the European Council and the European institutions lose power and the potential to formulate policy as a result ?
Is this a question of new competition between the European institutions and the national states ?
As for your question about Austria , I would like to repeat what I said about Austria ' s compliance with Articles 6 and 7 up to now .
What was at issue was not the Austrian Government ' s conduct , but its political make-up .
During an earlier debate I said that we are now all Austrians within the European Union , and I would like to repeat that .
We are all Austrians because the European Union is a single entity in terms of rights and citizenship , and I would like to have the same rights in Austria that Austrian citizens should have in my country .
And , as I said , this would be a purely bilateral matter .
The Austrians have every right to whatever government they want - but we have every right to our opinions about the Austrian Government .
Mr President-in-Office of the Council , you said that there is a party in power in Austria which has made racist comments in public .
Here in the European Parliament , people speak , not parties .
In your reply to Mr Dupuis ' question , you referred to the fact that the sanctions approved by the Heads of State and Governments of fourteen countries were bilateral in nature .
Can these sanctions also be stopped bilaterally ? In other words , can an individual Member State decide to end the sanctions and resume normal working relations ?
If so , when will the Council officially release the citizens of Austria from this ordeal , which violates their democratic rights ?
Must each Member State individually abandon the sanctions before the Council comes to its senses and overturns the decision ?
I think Mrs Kauppi must have misheard or there must have been a mistake in the interpreting .
I never said that the Austrian Government is a racist government , let me make that quite clear .
And the Freedom Party has not as yet made any statement totally repudiating its association with ideologies of this kind .
As for the other question you have raised , the answer is yes .
Any country can disassociate itself from the declaration made by the 14 countries .
The same freedom that led them to stand together could lead them to part company tomorrow if they had a different view of developments in Austria .
You also asked , Mrs Kauppi , when the Council will allow the Austrian people to escape from this pressure .
First of all , there is no Council decision .
As I have already said , we are talking about 14 countries .
This is not a European Union issue .
I would like to make it clear that Austria has been totally involved and will continue to be one hundred per cent involved in all the formal workings of the European Union ' s institutions .
Different individuals will have different perceptions of all this .
I personally do not like sitting alongside fascists .
Question No 3 by ( H-0151 / 00 ) :
In some cases , the fuel shortage has claimed human lives .
This programme started with two local authorities where the opposition held power .
The European Union subsequently decided , acting on proposals from various Member States , to extend this system to five other municipalities .
We hope that this signal from the European Union will be heard by democratic forces in Serbia .
We are aware that this obviously has an impact on the civilian population .
We are witnessing what I see as speedy preparation for a new bout in the dirty war against Yugoslavia and its people and everything going on outside Kosovo over the last few days bears witness to this .
The point is whether or not a country has the right to decide its fate and choose its government .
In Yugoslavia , the people decided democratically and Yugoslavia has its government and its president .
And whether we like it or not , that is a fact .
What sort of logic is it which , in order to punish the supposed suppressor of a people , punishes his supposed victims ?
Mr President , that is what is being done with the barbaric bombing , that is what is being done with the fuel embargo on Yugoslavia .
We are supporting a policy of genocide against a people which does not accept the choices foisted on it by the USA , NATO and the European Union .
My question is this : because there have already been a great many deaths due to the cold , will the fuel embargo be lifted and will the Yugoslav people be left to decide its own fate ?
I totally accept the honourable Member ' s premise that every people needs to be the master of its own destiny , that is exactly what we are seeking .
If that is what Mr Korakas thinks exists in Serbia , then we know where we stand .
Question No 4 by ( H-0155 / 00 ) :
Has it attempted to obtain this information and , if so , will it forward it to the author of this question and to the European Parliament ?
What action does it intend to take to remedy this lack of information ?
This cooperation between the missions of Member States will also cover information sharing on citizens who may be threatened with the death penalty .
Mr President-in-Office of the Council , I am grateful for your words but not for their content .
In other words , I appreciate your concern but not the content of the information you have offered .
This cannot be due to lack of time because I asked this question to the Council three months ago and it did not reply in writing .
It did not reply within the time period laid down and is replying now , orally , two months late .
Do you not think that this is rather difficult for the European citizens to understand ?
I know that we require the commitment of the Member States , but do you not think that what we basically need is a political will which , until now , I have not seen from any quarter ?
Mrs Dez Gonzlez , you have asked two questions . The first concerns the reply and the time the Council has taken to provide it .
As you know , this is a procedural matter and involves deadlines set unilaterally by the European Parliament .
The Council was not involved in approving those deadlines , has never accepted them , and it is accordingly the Council ' s policy to reiterate this point on a regular basis .
With regard to the specific point you are making , I recognise that you are perfectly right and that this is an issue which should be included in the agenda for work in this area as soon as possible .
Your comments make perfect sense .
You will also be aware that consular cooperation within the European Union is a recent development .
A systematic approach for consular cooperation and for coordinated consular action has only been developed in the last few years .
I presume that there are delays , and I believe that you are quite right , and the pressure being brought to bear on the Council on this subject is welcome as far as I am concerned .
It is a challenge which has still to be met , but I understand what was meant by that comment .
Question No 5 by ( H-0158 / 00 ) :
It is for the Council to respect and apply the relevant provisions of the Euratom Treaty , which does not provide for the Parliament to be consulted on these matters , which is how the Treaties stand .
In my role as chairman of the preparatory group for the ICG , I will make sure to take account of this request regarding the ICG .
However , no non-member country has made use of this facility to date .
Furthermore , the legal basis for this is the Euratom Treaty , so that there is once again no provision for consulting the European Parliament .
Thank you , Minister .
So do you have a feeling about how these discussions may develop in the IGC ?
Nevertheless , we will continue to maintain a dialogue with the European Parliament on this subject .
Question No 6 by ( H-0160 / 00 ) :
Repayment of a loan which Germany extracted from the Bank of Greece during the occupation in 1943 also remains outstanding .
I can answer the honourable Member ' s question quite easily : this issue does not fall within the competencies of the Council .
It is a matter for bilateral relations between Greece and German and the Council is not , therefore , willing to take any action , let alone the action recommended by the honourable Member .
Mr President , the reply by the President-in-Office puts me in mind of the reply by Pontius Pilate .
How exactly do things stand ?
During the occupation , the German Government forced the Greek Government to give it a loan , which today , with interest and inflation , totals some USD 25 billion .
This loan was signed and sealed and represents an obligation .
It collects every last cent of the loans which it grants .
The other issue is the tremendous damage caused by Germany ' s occupying forces in Greece .
This comes to some USD 40 billion .
Other countries have been paid . Greece has not .
Why ?
Of course , the Greek Governments bear some responsibility , but at some point all this needs to be analysed .
Germany has acknowledged its obligation from time to time . However , it has failed to honour it on various pretexts .
Now there are no longer any excuses and it is duty-bound to pay and the Council cannot wash its hands .
I consider the reply by the President-in-Office to be unacceptable .
I can assure Mr Korakas that the Council is perfectly willing to intervene in this matter , as long as he can explain to us what the legal basis for doing so would be , under the Treaties .
Question No 7 by ( H-0162 / 00 ) :
Subject : Support for European films European films are highly important to the cultural diversity and the cultural heritage both of the individual countries and of Europe .
80 to 90 % of the films showing in Sweden are , however , American .
Up to 50 % state aid for film production is allowed in the EU at present .
The Commission is said to be considering lowering the limit for State aid , i.e. to reduce the exemption for cultural support to a maximum of 30 % .
This would be a threat to European film production , as producing films is expensive and commercially very risky , especially in smaller countries .
Does the Council agree that State aid is important to promote European culture ?
Does the Council not consider it important to encourage diversed European film production ?
Mr President , Mrs Hedkvist Petersen ' s question is a very important one , but we do not have any information to the effect that the Commission is considering reducing state aids in this field .
In fact , the Council understands that as part of its programme , the Commission is holding discussions with Member States on this very subject .
I would like to explain that at national level this type of support is a matter for Member States , within certain legal limits laid down in the Treaty .
On the other hand , the existing MEDIA II programme and the future MEDIA-PLUS programme provide complementary financial assistance with a view to strengthening the presence of European cinema .
I would like to thank the Council 's representative for his reply .
Firstly , I would like to say that there is an enormous difference between , for example , producing cars or lorries and producing a film .
We are aware that film production is dependent on aid , as it is a combination of culture and commercial production .
We also know that European film , particularly when produced in languages with few speakers , cannot easily maintain as large a film production as one would wish .
Therefore , aid for both national and European film production is extremely important , as is the opportunity to continue the practice of accepting up to 50 percent State aid for film production .
Mrs Hedkvist Petersen , I am of course especially conscious of the point you have made about the Union ' s smaller Member States .
We are also concerned about this .
At the moment we have no indication that the Commission is considering a lowering of this limit , let alone the amount and the percentage mentioned by the honourable Member .
Question No 8 by ( H-0166 / 00 ) :
Subject : Information for the public Will the Council draw up a list of parties which the electorate can safely vote for without running the risk of their country being ostracised ?
If we went down that path we would certainly be entering very dangerous territory .
This means that it cannot be accepted as a legitimate party in the democratic process . Other countries have different systems and these have just as many virtues as my own .
We are all European citizens and we are all citizens of a European Union which is underpinned , politically speaking , by a basic set of principles .
If these principles are at risk , we have the right - and the duty - to sound the alarm .
But whether lists of parties are desirable or otherwise , I hope that this never becomes a matter for the European Union .
Yes , but the problem , of course , is that this is what we are concerned with here .
Up until now , it is only opinions you are punishing and not actions .
If it were a question of actions , it would perhaps be Denmark which should be punished for a ban on immigrants of a kind which the FP has not been able to put into practice .
It is therefore opinions which you have punished and not actions .
Knowing the answer to these questions would be useful as a guide to the consumer , but it may well be that the action taken by the 14 Prime Ministers is a source of regret .
The attitude adopted by some Member States towards the Austrian Government related to their negative perception of the new Austrian Government , which does not affect the Community framework .
We are not working at Council level here .
The European Union has not taken a single discriminatory measure against Austria .
However , Mr Bonde , you should not , of course , confuse economic and monetary union with Nazism , they are in fact slightly different .
Of course , all parties have every right to oppose economic and monetary union , the Schengen Agreement , or anything else ; they can even oppose the European Union itself .
As you know , there are parties which are opposed to the European Union , but that does not mean that they should be seen as undemocratic .
It is therefore quite natural , Mr Bonde , that certain governments should feel somewhat uneasy .
This uneasiness is only being reflected in bilateral relations .
We are not confusing Community matters with bilateral matters .
Question No 9 by ( H-0169 / 00 ) :
I have received no letter from the President-in-Office , which confirms my worst suspicions about the obsessive secretiveness of the Council .
In the case of definitive legislative acts approved by the Council , the reports include the results of any votes , and any statements for the minutes made by the Council , the Commission and the Member States .
This is in fact one of the achievements of the much maligned Treaty of Amsterdam which people need to be regularly reminded about .
After each meeting of the Council , a press release is issued which contains information on decisions taken by the Council .
This indicates for which decisions statements for the minutes were authorised for release to the public and which are obtainable from the Press Service .
It is also possible to obtain information on the legislative transparency of the Council by e-mail .
These provisions need to reflect a number of concerns which , whilst preserving the rules of transparency , cannot be allowed to turn transparency into a means of making any Council activity totally ineffective .
For this reason , as I have already said , this article stipulates that the rules of procedure of the European Parliament , the Council and the Commission should contain specific provisions regarding access to their documents .
During the Finnish presidency , substantial progress was made in the field of access to documents by means of modern information technology , and in particular the Internet .
Furthermore , a Council Decision on improving the provision of information relating to the Council 's legislative activities and the public register of Council documents was approved .
The current presidency has been following this practice .
The presidency immediately initiated discussion of the proposal , which was presented at the Coreper meeting on 2 February and which was examined at two subsequent meetings .
This set of tasks has therefore , Mr President , been developed by the Council on the basis of Commission proposals which I believe suggest a real will to increase the transparency of this work .
I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a very long , detailed and serious reply .
Because I do not speak Portuguese I shall study the reply before the next question time and come back to you on it in April .
For now I would like you to give me a very simple reply to a very simple question of principle .
I do not think it is the case in the Council that the public is actually able to see and hear everything that their representatives say and do when passing laws .
Would you accept that principle ?
Discussion of legislative proposals within the government is not in the public domain , but the result of these legislative proposals is in the public domain , whether they come before parliament or not .
Mr President , during the Finnish presidency , we were able to get through twenty questions in question time .
Last time we covered twelve with Portugal as the country holding the presidency .
It seems as if we will not get through any more than that today either .
. ( PT ) I have two points to make , Mr Seppnen .
Firstly , if that was how Parliament saw things , we could even give not twenty , but thirty answers to honourable Members ' questions .
But we can also opt for a bureaucratic , officious , quick , artificial and probably unsatisfactory answer .
We would then - in quantitative terms - be more successful in giving answers to this House .
I have been here since 9 o ' clock in the morning and I do not think that the Council can be accused of not doing a serious job in answering honourable Members ' questions .
I would be grateful if you could rephrase your question , Mr Nicholson , because I did not grasp what you were saying .
Excuse me , but could you put the question in a different way ?
You were saying that the Council is not alone in being a legislature that makes its decisions in secret .
I just wondered if you could give us examples of other similar organisations in government that make these decisions in the same way .
Unless I am very much mistaken , Mr Nicholson , the majority of governments do not broadcast meetings at which they are acting in their legislative capacity .
Governments ' legislative role is normally exercised in restricted , closed meetings in every country in the world .
Therefore , to the best of my knowledge , in the majority of countries throughout the world , governments do their work in closed sessions not open to the public .
Mr Seixas da Costa had informed us that he had to leave at 7.00 p.m.
He has also pointed out that he has been working with us since 9.00 a.m.
I believe that today he has earned his salary as a minister and as President-in-Office of the Council .
We will therefore conclude questions to the Council and thank him for being here .
Questions Nos 10 to 38 will be replied to in writing .
That concludes Questions to the Council .
( The sitting was closed at 7.00 p.m. )
Mr Evans has the floor .
Evans , Robert ( PSE ) .
Mr President , my point of order relates to Rules 148 and 135 regarding the distribution of the minutes and particularly regarding roll-call votes .
All Members have , this morning , received a booklet containing 113 pages of roll-call votes .
I am sure this is of interest to a number of Members and there will be a few Members who want to look at it .
But in the interests of economy and the environment , I would suggest that Parliament look again , or ask Parliament 's services to look again , at the interpretation of the word ' distribution ' .
I wonder if you could ask the services to have another look at this please , President .
Thank you , Mr Evans .
Your comments will be passed on , not to the services , of course , but to the Bureau .
If you were also to add the cost of each of those votes to Parliament ' s budget , there would be even more cause for concern .
EU-Mexico Interim Agreement
In May 1998 Parliament gave its assent to a provisional interim agreement on trade and related issues associated with the 1997 agreement .
Here I want to thank the Commission for making this consultation by the Council possible in close cooperation with Parliament - I am delighted about that and I hope it will set a precedent .
However , I am sorry it did not adopt the commitment of the previous Commission to keep us informed of the progress of the negotiations , given the importance of the issues involved .
In fact , Article 1 of that agreement makes respect for democratic principles and human rights , in the widest sense , an essential factor and the very foundation of the agreement .
All the same , in spite of this asymmetry , Community producers will clearly be in a much better position to compete in the Mexican market than they have been up to now .
Mr President , I should like to start by thanking Mrs Ferrer for her excellent report .
She has gone to a great deal of trouble and has used her report to set out the problems and the advantages and disadvantages of this project with Mexico .
This is a trade agreement which falls within the competence of the EU and , as you rightly say , we only have the option of saying yes or no .
We cannot renegotiate the agreement .
All in all , our Group will vote in favour of this trade agreement , which we welcome .
For the rest , I should like to say to Mr Folias , who worries about the problem of footwear that , generally-speaking , trade relations between Europe and Mexico have always proven their worth in the past .
We might have been able to dispense with the Lannoye report on chocolate yesterday had Mexico not given us cocoa in the past .
In fact , chocolate - " chocolatl " - is a Mexican word .
We can therefore use past experience to help develop future relations with Mexico .
The advantage to Mexico is obvious .
This agreement will enable Mexico to redress the imbalance of its one-way dependence on the USA to a certain extent .
I should like to remind the House that 85 % of Mexico ' s exports go north and only 5 % come to Europe .
Mexico stands to gain here by achieving a better trade equilibrium .
Mexico ' s automobile industry , which is partly of European origin , certainly also stands to gain from the possibility of exporting vehicles to Europe .
We too stand to gain , as does European industry , be it on the Mexican market or by exporting to the USA via the Mexican market .
As far as trade is concerned , there are advantages all round .
I should like to go briefly into , or at least touch on , two problems .
The first are social problems ; in other words , Mexico will certainly have to review its social policy because trade policies alone will not solve social problems .
When free trade increases , there are also losers .
Poverty in Mexico has risen rather than fallen .
Social policy is therefore an important area for Mexico and we should build this into the dialogue with Mexico .
The second is scientific and technical cooperation .
I think that there is potential here which can be exploited between Europe and Mexico .
There have been certain changes in Mexico recently , since the announcement and approval of the agreement , largely in a positive direction .
If that does not happen , there is a risk that this very significant agreement will not be worth the paper it is written on .
Both we and the people of Mexico set great store by this agreement .
They see it as a chance to correct their one-way dependence on NAFTA .
They believe that , in the EU , they have found a partner which stands for democracy , human rights and social and ecological development .
Today we have analysed the contract and found that the agreement with the EU not only creates the same sort of relationship as with NAFTA , but that , in parts , it is even worse .
Like the rightly failed MAI , freedom of investment , reproduced bilaterally , does nothing to foster a democratically-controlled economy geared to local development .
Placing no limit on opening public procurement merely allows large suppliers to swallow up small suppliers all over the world .
Provisions such as domestic treatment and bans on conditions cut companies which , for example , prefer to employ women or engage in environmentally sound production , out of the running .
The EU has kept derogations open for itself here .
Mexico has none !
Here is another shortcoming in comparison with NAFTA : the latter has an agreement on employees ' rights with a sanction mechanism , while the EU agreement has not even heard of the Social Pact of the United Nations .
However , the opposite applies to trade disputes , for which a dispute settlement mechanism is provided together with the possibility of sanctions .
We know from the WTO that environmental laws are regularly sidelined as the result of such disputes .
" A free trade agreement at the cost of the Mexicans " .
It was under this banner that the Mexican civil society called a few days ago for the Senate to improve the agreement and not to rush into signing it .
Some points even contradict the Mexican constitution .
" We are not ' globalphobes ' they write at the end , " but we want globalisation which benefits mankind and a fair world order without social exclusion " .
We here in the European Parliament do not oppose an agreement with Mexico .
On the contrary !
We are unable , however , to vote in favour of this agreement for the reasons stated and must continue to fight for better agreements in the future .
One last word : we need a critical voice here in Parliament which continues to support the rightful concerns and demands of Mexican society .
I would like to thank the rapporteur , Mrs Ferrer , for the recommendation on the implementation of certain articles of the EC-Mexico Interim Agreement on trade .
The report is thorough , but I am afraid that I do not agree with the choices and recommendations it makes , although we do welcome some of the criticisms mentioned .
However , these criticisms are decisive , and have led us to oppose the motion .
We are particularly concerned by the fact that the rapporteur is satisfied with the progress made by Mexico in the area of human rights and democracy since the application of the global agreement .
At the same time , the Saint Andrs agreements and the rights of the indigenous peasants are not being observed .
All this is common knowledge and I need say no more .
The EU-Mexico Agreement could have negative implications if it does not take into account the need for balanced development , and not uncontrolled liberalisation , which could lead to greater poverty and inequality .
Mr President , we regard the title of the agreement which is the subject of Mrs Ferrer ' s report as at best incomplete , at worst dissembling .
That is a totally unrealistic objective for the near future and it is quite obvious for whose benefit the measures advocated in the text are designed .
Indeed , it must be quite clear to everyone that the decline in European exports to Mexico is the result of the NAFTA agreement , which turns the entire area into a single free trade area .
Under these conditions , how can anyone justify the fact that the respective markets will be liberalised at different rates , to the detriment of the Europeans ?
So , all in all , the on-going agreement has not allowed Mexico to protect vulnerable labour , intensive sectors and minimal environmental standards .
Fortunately , that criticism and reluctance is now a thing of the past ; unfortunately , however , we still hear some reservations , like those voiced in Parliament just now .
I think we need to realise that what we are doing is actually forestalling the fears expressed here , with an agreement which , in this case , is purely about trade .
So we are forestalling these fears about Europe losing ground in Mexico against the exporting power of the United States .
What is more , this agreement means we are also strengthening the country ' s democratisation process .
As a result of that 500 year-old meeting of civilisations , Mexico is a country culturally and politically bound to Europe .
But politically and geo-politically , the fundamental weight has essentially lain with the United States , its powerful neighbour to the North .
And until these agreements start to bite , the hegemony of the United States in terms of economics , trade and investment will remain virtually absolute .
But Mexico has also made great progress on human rights .
It has been granted permanent observer status at the OECD and in 1999 it reformed its constitution to grant autonomy to its National Commission on Human Rights
So , for both economic and political reasons , we urge approval of this agreement .
Mr President , the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance does not have a common position on this issue .
Obviously we share a basic concern about everything relating to human rights and sustainable development , especially in a context which leaves no room for social exclusion .
I also think measures can be introduced to monitor its effects at all levels , not just on tariff changes and so on .
So let us do all that and let us be vigilant about preventing what we want to prevent : the continued violation of human rights .
Mr President , first I want to congratulate Mrs Ferrer on her excellent report , but despite that I also have to record that , regrettably , we cannot vote for it this time .
Our decision has nothing to do with her work , it relates to the situation in Mexico .
Mr Zedillo promised to let me have full details to prove to me that our concern was groundless .
The days have gone by and still the information from Mr Zedillo has not come .
Meanwhile , information is reaching us from many sources indicating that serious human rights violations are continuing in many places , increasing our concern .
Last time , we consulted with the parties on the left in Mexico on how to vote and we decided to abstain .
Mr President , I will not discuss the content of this agreement since many speakers , including the rapporteur , have already covered it .
I just want to highlight the political significance of the signing of this free trade agreement between the European Union and Mexico .
Mexico ' s membership of the OECD was just mentioned , and its observer status at the Council of Europe should also be remembered .
Nor should we forget the opportunities represented by this market of 100 million people .
But obviously this political symbolism can in no way allay our concern about environmental issues , social issues and above all human rights issues , and many speakers have already referred to them here today .
What we do know is that our concern must make us more rigorous in our relations with Mexico .
That is just what we will be in ten days ' time .
The European Parliament ' s delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico will be visiting that country .
We are not going just for institutional dialogue between partners , between the Congress and the European Parliament .
We are going to talk to non-governmental organisations .
We are also going to Chiapas to talk to the indigenous people and representatives of local society .
That is how rigorous we believe we need to be but it will not detract from our support for approval of this agreement .
Overall , I feel that we can but support this agreement , for the reasons expressed by Messrs Westendorp y Cabeza and Seguro , whose opinions I share .
I therefore feel that the Council and the Commission should take great care when implementing this agreement , and continually monitor its application for as long as it is in force .
I support the agreement in its entirety , for it certainly represents a step forward .
However , I also call for scrutiny , care and prudence regarding this agreement for its entire duration .
Mr President , first of all I want to thank Madam Ferrer for the report and Parliament for the very constructive input with regard to the results of the trade negotiations with Mexico .
These results of the trade negotiations are based on the EU-Mexico agreement to which this Parliament gave the green light on 6 May last year .
This agreement is based on human rights and democratic principles .
It covers all our relations with Mexico , notably cooperation and political dialogue .
The negotiating results are balanced , ambitious and offer a window of opportunity for both sides .
All important areas are included , notably trade in goods , services , procurement , intellectual property rights , competition , capital movement , investment and dispute settlement .
EC operators will be very rapidly able to compete on the Mexican market on an equal footing with industries elsewhere , notably the United States .
As in all negotiations , compromises had to be found in certain areas but the results are a balanced package assuring market access while preserving specific sensitivities .
Last , but not least , I would like to express the Commission 's high appreciation of the very short time period of one month in which the Parliament will be delivering its opinion .
It is very important because it will pave the way for organising a meeting of the EC-Mexico Joint Council on the margins of the Lisbon Council next week .
This will allow for the rapid entry into force of the results which , as you recognise , are in both our and Mexico 's interest .
Thank you very much , Mr Liikanen .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place at 12 noon .
Information society for All
Mr President , may I start by thanking the Commission for its timely , well-judged and well-forecasted document .
We ought to put this into some sort of context , though , and remind ourselves that the majority of people in the world have never made and probably never will make even one phone call .
The Commission proposals and Parliament 's response give a clear acknowledgement that the market can and should be the motor for much of this change , but not in every case .
The challenge is to work out when the European Union should let the market do the driving , and when we should intervene and regulate - when we should intervene , in whose interests and for how long .
The adoption of the GSM standard has meant that the European Union has a tremendous advantage .
I hope that there will be support for those , because they go into a considerable amount of important detail .
Other amendments are looking at matters relating to disability rights .
We have amendments about consumer protection - so important in the establishment of trust in e-commerce - on the future of taxation , on the implications for healthcare and for transport .
It is important , too , that we in Parliament and in the institutions of the European Union also apply modern methods , methods characterised by transparency and openness , in our own deliberations .
I should like to use my final few seconds to draw to your attention three projects in my own area .
Further north , the Nottingham rural community council have set up a similar project in an area of serious mining deprivation , and this is bringing enormous benefits to many of the people in that area .
On a broader basis , M-net , the European East Midlands network helping small businesses and craft enterprises and linking in with universities and colleges , is also important .
Finally , some comments , Mr President , on what the future holds .
I think for all of us the future for our children and grandchildren is a future of great opportunity , though also of great uncertainty .
It is praiseworthy that the Commission is looking to play a leading , pivotal role in this , and I commend the Commission proposals and my own report to you .
We have been working against the clock and we have been dealing with an excellent and supportive fellow Member , who has been very open to accepting all the points our committee wanted to raise in this important debate .
Many thanks for your report and your skill , Mrs Read .
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has welcomed the Commission ' s very important initiative , e-Europe , for the Special European Council to be held in Lisbon on 23 and 24 March , with support and optimism .
We still do not have much idea of who is going to finance the massive programme to teach basic digital literacy which Europe needs to close the gap with the United States .
We do not have much idea of how the responsibilities can be divided between governments and Commission , or what role trade unions and civil society can play .
Commissioner , there are great opportunities here , but they must reach all the people .
And we want the European social model to be defended .
So we are asking for a step forward , with more specific commitments and far more adequate political and financial efforts .
Mr President , Commissioner Liikanen , the e-Europe initiative by the European Commission is to be welcomed in principle .
We all agree that new technologies will lead to extensive change , not only in our business life but in all aspects of our social life .
It is also true that the evolution from industrial society to information society cannot be halted and that it therefore makes political sense to prepare Europe for the information society as best we can .
The European Commission sets out ten measures in its communication on the e-Europe initiative , which should level the playing field in the run up to the information society in Europe .
As welcome as the individual measures are , they need to be structured as a whole and clear priorities need to be set for our policy .
In this respect , the summit in Lisbon should table recommendations to the individual states , without imposing comprehensive obligations or heavy financial burdens .
What must the European Union do within the framework of the e-Europe initiative ?
First : we must create an open , modern , high-performance multimedia infrastructure .
This includes cheaper Internet access for all the citizens of Europe , which means fostering even more competition in local networks , for example by unbundling customer access .
It also means that all platforms must be made accessible to service providers at competitive prices ; this might include making television cables available .
It also means that the policy regarding frequencies in Europe will need to be reviewed and we will need to take a more strategic approach based on economic principles , as you have suggested , Commissioner .
But , in so doing , we must not , of course , forget commercial applications which are generally provided in the public interest , such as public service radio .
On the contrary , this must be taken into account when frequencies are being allocated so that it can fulfil its purpose as an opinion-forming institution which provides a platform for a variety of opinions .
Secondly : we must quickly create a legal framework for electronic commerce .
This means that we must deal swiftly with legislative proposals pending , such as the e-commerce directive or the directive amending copyright protection .
However , caution is required in the legislative area in that we must not over-regulate ; in other words , the first question with future legislative proposals should always be , do we actually need this ?
Thirdly : we need an e-Europe test bench for European initiatives .
I have already referred to the fact that the changes in information technology and the new media affect all areas of life .
Consequently , it is advisable to set all initiatives at European level on the e-Europe test bench . In other words ...
( The President cut the speaker off ) Mr President , I apologise .
Please be so kind as to allow me to finish my sentence .
Mr President , congratulations are in order today of course to Mrs Read on her excellent report and to Commissioner Liikanen .
This is a positive debate , very positive for Europe , and widespread interest has been shown , as evidenced by the large number of amendments .
I know that we will have a very good advertising and information campaign , and that we will capture the imagination of the citizens of Europe .
We must not forget people with disabilities .
There is also the fact that the documentation is not available to partially sighted people , and that is an oversight which could be put right in future .
We must prevent divisions , divisions between the regions of Europe , between the households of Europe and between the individuals of Europe .
Business-to-business communications are doing well but we must enhance communications between business and consumers in the European Union , where we lag behind the United States .
Of course , to do that we have to ensure that people - customers - are convinced of privacy and security , and your measures will help to bring about that confidence .
We can also see this from the follow-up document prepared by the Commission .
The initiative is important if we are to stop having to say that the United States is the overall leader within this developing field .
According to the " 2000 IDC / World Times Information Society Index " , published in February , Sweden has overtaken the United States as the leading information economy .
The United States occupies second place . Finland , Norway and Denmark follow , in that order .
Scandinavia is acquitting itself well with its social infrastructure and also , perhaps , with its pensions systems .
We ought to bear this in mind , something I am convinced the Commission has done .
We should also remember that the EU countries are very different from one another and that developments are very rapid .
This must be reflected in the action plan .
It is also important that the countries which are forging ahead most quickly should not be checked in their development .
In view of countries ' different levels of development in the IT sphere , I am also sceptical about information plans and campaigns at EU level . " e-Europe " means more than just " e-commerce " .
The Directive on electronic commerce deals for the most part with things other than trading on the part of consumers .
I should like to appeal to the Commission to pay attention to the question which is being discussed in an adjoining room with Federal Trade Commissioner Thompson : that of how we are to increase consumer confidence .
The consumer has to be king when it comes to electronic commerce . Otherwise , it will not properly take off .
When alternative ways of solving disputes are discussed , we ought to collaborate globally with the United States . Nonetheless , we should also support the OECD in its work .
The issues of broadband communications and of good infrastructure are on the agenda in the majority of countries .
There is a need for diversity , but now more standards are being sought for Digital Subscriber Lines with the help of which it will be possible to upgrade the network .
It is widely maintained that telephone companies are not making use of the available technology because standards are lacking .
Smart cards , encryption , mobile phones and " e-Europe " constitute our strength .
We shall persist with developments in these areas but , when it comes to standards , we need to pursue further development .
It is not we politicians who should decide on these standards . Instead , we should allow industry to reach an agreement concerning standards where there is a demand for these .
Our task is to legislate more quickly and to make for new patterns of legislation where possible .
I am glad that this point is made in the report .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , Commissioner , rapporteur , allow me to thank you for the open debate and , of course , the report .
I should like to turn my attention first to the policy approach of the e-Europe initiative and to the approach taken by the Read report .
The Internet , e-mail and mobile telephones will apparently do away with unemployment .
But the reality of the matter is somewhat different .
The IT boom is confronted by mergers and redundancies .
History teaches us that this approach has failed .
Industrialisation , atomic energy and biotechnology have not brought freedom and prosperity for all .
Initiatives and reports are informed by the concept that the playing field should be levelled for the youngest and best .
Unfortunately , this concept totally ignores the fact that this group already represents the winners , while the general mass goes away empty-handed .
What we need to do is to allow everyone to profit from technical innovation , irrespective of how old or how rich they are or in which region they live .
We should hold our principle of equal opportunity up to the light of truth .
A universal service points the right way , but the idea should not be implemented by providers which censor the Internet by using technical devices to deny their customers access to parts of the Net .
The Commission ' s proposal aims to create equality through market liberalisation .
That alone is nonsensical enough because liberalisation always starts from the premise that the strong will become stronger , while the state should only give the weak minimum support .
In the case of information technology , however , we start with a totally different set of coordinates .
For example , there are numerous initiatives to promote the Internet and computers in schools .
But if no account is taken of the fact that each class contains at least one pupil who knows more than the teacher , then the initiative cannot but fail .
The fact that strong anti-American arguments had to be used at numerous points of the Read report as an excuse for the liberalisation policy again illustrates the extent to which the interests of private industry have dictated the text .
That brings me to my next controversial point : civil rights .
What we in fact need is a concept for universal data protection .
Instead , the Commission and parts of the European Parliament visualise a smart card on which all your data would be stored .
Your medical health fund would know that you are homosexual and your employer would know all about your previous and expected future illnesses and your forefathers .
It means a step in the direction of see-through man and yet more state interference in our private lives .
It is being used to deliberately plan and implement a further massive restriction of fundamental rights at European level .
It is being sold as an innovative policy at the same time as Parliament is arguing with other institutions for a Charter of Fundamental Rights .
How can these two things be reconciled ?
In the light of " echelon " , I am calling for a rethink of this matter .
Data protection and encoding are what we need .
For the rest , the citizens must control the state , not the other way around .
Mr President , in the original paper in English , the Commission uses the words ' information society ' and not ' knowledge society ' .
These are two different things .
Information is only a raw material of knowledge . Information is chaos , while knowledge is order : order out of chaos .
The information society is the chaos society .
The knowledge society is more than that , and it may also be a society of social order , cultural diversity and human solidarity .
The information society has to date made its presence felt in the form of price quotations on a chaotic stock market .
The prices of shares in technology have risen in a such a way which cannot be justified economically .
Neither has the money often gone into new investment for business but to the owners , who have become millionaires and billionaires .
In that way the information society emerges as a bubble economy , a symbol of social inequality and imbalance .
The information society has been a matter of millionaires causing a social revolution : they have innovatively destroyed the old structures of society .
Their revolution has been to sell computers and software to everyone .
The rest of us should start a counter-revolution .
We should set our aims higher than the Commission has done .
We have to demand a knowledge society for all rather than the chaotic information society we are getting .
It cannot just be a question of whether everyone has a mobile phone , how e-mail gets sent and what to buy over the Internet .
At its best the knowledge society can be a social dimension of the new capitalism .
The information society for all is too undemanding , too commercial and too culturally restricted a goal .
We should want a knowledge society for all : that is democracy .
Mr President , ' the best is the enemy of the good ' , as they say in France , and I do fear Mrs Read ' s report is a striking illustration of that saying .
Yet I fear that the catalogue of good intentions before us today may , in fact , make it more difficult to achieve the objective we are seeking .
In what way is the Commission ' s document compatible with the existence of tax provisions in the field of commerce and employment specific to the various Member States ?
How can we ensure respect for our concepts of the freedom of the individual and freedom of expression , which have not yet been harmonised at world level ?
It is rather surprising , Mrs Ferrer , to read in paragraph 55 of your report that this Parliament expressly supports ...
( The President cut the speaker off )
Mr President , Commissioner , it is a very positive sign that Lisbon will see focused discussion on the development of the information society in Europe .
The ' new economy ' is here to stay , in Europe too .
The European response to new challenges and exploiting opportunities has , however , been a long time coming .
For that reason , the e-Europe initiative is in a more crucially important position than ever before with regard to Union competitiveness and , consequently , from the point of view of our citizens also .
The proposals for reform in the initiative are ambitious , but do not even necessarily go far enough .
The goals are too modest , especially for my home country of Finland , where , in many respects , we are ahead of our European partners in networking .
The initiative should also be supplemented by the future challenges facing those countries with a more advanced information society .
Commissioner , I appreciate the amount of work that you , to your credit , have carried out regarding these issues relating to the information society .
We Members of the European Parliament cannot stand by either , while Europe continually lags behind its global competitors in the world of the Internet .
The clear lead Europe enjoys in the world of wireless communications is not enough for us to stop caring about the future of the European information society and about whether we really can keep up with the competition .
Being in a key position when creating the information society encourages real competition in telecommunications networks .
Competition cuts costs , and we have to bring down these very costs of communications , so that consumers and SMEs can derive full benefit from the electronic revolution .
Apart from reduced costs , the growth in electronic commerce also means that questions of security should be able to be resolved to the satisfaction of consumers and that defects in legislation should be corrected .
I think it is particularly important to take measures to increase venture capital projects for SMEs in the high technology sector .
The EUR 20 billion currently being used in venture capital projects in Europe each year is only one quarter of what the United States spends over the same period .
The amount is much too small .
Fortunately , the Commission has shown initiative in this matter , however , and has focused attention on accelerating developments here .
Speedy developments in the information society will drastically change our environment and our working and living conditions .
As European legislators , we have before us an immense challenge , if we intend to keep legislation abreast of the times .
The legislator does not always even have to interfere in developments : in certain matters industry and the players themselves may quickly resolve problems through cooperation .
Examples would be the positive experience that was gained from the common standardisation of second generation mobile phone systems and which is directly visible now in the strengthened competitive position with regard to third generation output .
Control of the new operational environment will also require increased technical and pedagogic facilities and resources in training schemes .
Consequently , there will have to be more focus on the training of teaching staff in European educational and training programmes .
Finally I would like to say that I support the introduction of benchmarking with regard to the development of the information society .
With regard to the concrete proposals contained in the e-Europe communiqu , I can only wonder why the Council has not discussed them before , so as to ensure commitment on the part of Member States .
This is more than an economic challenge : it is a process of profound cultural change which must filter down to every family , every school , every company and every public authority .
There is a genuine need for this , given the suspicion with which our fellow citizens approach these new tools .
I trust that during work on the action plan , following the Lisbon Summit , there will be more effective cooperation between the two Committees .
Moreover , I set great store by protecting small and medium-sized businesses , with special emphasis on the small businesses .
In this connection , it is important to ensure that guarantees are provided for advertising purposes .
Indeed , due to a lack of a harmonised policy on commercial communication , obstacles could well surface which cannot be negotiated , particularly by small businesses .
Far-reaching harmonisation concerning commercial communication is therefore urgently needed .
Mr President , with the e-Europe initiative , the Commission is reminding us that Europe is lagging behind in the development of the information society .
That means it is lagging behind the United States which , indeed , no one would deny .
But having said that , we should evaluate the quality of this backwardness : economic , political and social . How do we measure it ?
The Commission says it wants to launch a political initiative , so let us take it at its word .
Yes , Europe is backward in terms of access to the information society as a tool , a tool of knowledge , a tool of creativity , a tool for exchanging information .
Yes , it is backward in terms of the development of e-commerce made possible by the Internet .
But are these two forms of backwardness the same ?
Some might say ' no matter ' , we must strive for the wholesale development of the magnificent tool of digital information and that is an end in itself .
That is the impression the Commission ' s initiative could give .
The question that has not been asked is about the content of the information that is supposed to circulate thanks to this digital tool .
Will that content be standardised or will it reflect the cultural and linguistic diversity of Europe ?
Will it be a social content or purely market-related ?
Even now , the information society is creating social networks , giving rise to new cultural experiences , producing sites for political debate and exchanges of view .
We need to evaluate them properly .
The Commission refers to Europe ' s backwardness and the need to make up for it .
Between considerations of backwardness and urgency , we must not confine ourselves to speeding up this process but must instead consider the democratic and political conditions under which it takes place .
Technological progress is an all-too familiar slogan .
In fact , the transformation we are witnessing is reminiscent of what happened with the invention of printing .
We need to reflect very seriously about the challenges and changes it is bringing about .
The new technologies which we are debating here have , for the most part , radically altered the bases of production , service , distribution , trade , research , use of information etc. in our societies .
I think we are all fascinated by all the new products and applications which are being made available .
One such example is , of course , the area of education .
We live at a time when education is becoming ever more important as a factor in production .
One aspect to which little attention is paid in this area is that knowledge , unlike other production factors ( such as capital , minerals , and agricultural and other land ) , is not a scarce resource .
Knowledge has a clear tendency to increase or to expand when it is used .
It opens the door to incredibly exciting developments where democracy and justice are concerned .
We are all born with the potential to learn and acquire knowledge . This cannot , however , occur without good prior conditions for education and learning .
That is why the proposal in this report , according to which resources for education and learning would be made available , is so important .
It is not , however , just a question of technical equipment . It is also a question of developing new teaching methods and distance learning .
This is important in our own part of the world but is also , of course , especially important in poor countries .
Another area which is just as important is that of the opportunities for using the new technologies to make the use of energy and materials more efficient .
Commendably , in my view , the present programme refers to the area of transport .
Do not forget , however , that it is also possible , to a significant degree , to achieve an actual physical reduction in transport needs , which is something we should be trying to come to grips with .
We are only at the beginning of an important discussion , and I look forward to further stimulating dialogue .
Thank you , Mr Liikanen and Mrs Read , for an interesting report .
Mr President , Commissioner , metaphorically-speaking , what we have in the new I + C technologies is new fuel for our economic locomotive to re-heat our eco-system .
However , I should like to raise three points which perhaps merit our attention .
First : Article 6 of the Treaty of Amsterdam clearly calls for the principle of sustainability to be integrated into all policies .
Improvements are therefore needed here .
Secondly : how will our working life and employment relations change ?
Will people be able to influence how they are organised ?
We need to consider if we need new joint-decision structures in the face of these revolutionary developments , new structures for listening to employees and making decisions .
Greater account needs to be taken of this .
Thirdly : the Fifth Framework Programme on research contains a great deal of socio-economic research , the purpose of which is to analyse what holds Europe together in the area of I + C technologies .
We cannot fill and heat our locomotive with ordinary fuel and , at the same time , carry out socio-economic flanking research under the framework programme which makes no reference to this communication .
In short , we need to heat the locomotive but not to allow it to travel anywhere it pleases . This locomotive needs rails .
Mr President , colleagues , not since the spread of universal suffrage in the last century has our society faced such a big potential transfer of power .
The information society has potential to transfer power from government to individual , from bureaucrat to citizen and , of course , from business to consumer .
It opens up a global market place and almost limitless information to anyone with access to a computer screen .
It is the biggest engine to break down barriers between communities and nationalities that we have ever seen - bigger than any EU directive can possibly be .
Legislators cannot keep up with this technology even if they try to .
Technology and industry are better equipped to respond to consumer concerns in what is an immensely competitive market .
But we all know that we need a base line of government involvement .
We need a basic legislative framework for e-commerce .
I hope it will be a light-touch framework , but we need to drive it through quickly because the e-clock is ticking and there are many organisations around the world fighting for this business .
It is in our interest to make sure that we get the answers and our legislation right , but also to get them through quickly .
We in this House should drive through the e-commerce directive with its country of origin principle as fast as we possibly can .
We should adopt new rules on jurisdiction which trust consumers to make an informed choice about which jurisdiction they want to opt for .
We want to build on Europe 's lead on mobile telephony and adopt the examples of such great global players as Finland 's Nokia .
I think three points need to be noted , as well as the risks and concerns to which they give rise .
The first relates to the users and the risk of a gap emerging between the various victims of social exclusion .
My third and last point relates to the question of public service and improving the democratic systems to develop procedures ...
( The President cut the speaker off )
Mr President , Commissioner , e-Europe is a really important programme for everyone en route from the industrial society to the information society .
I would therefore like to congratulate the Portuguese presidency on its decision to make this issue the focus of the special summit .
I should like to congratulate the Commission on its proposal and the rapporteur on her report and I should like to explain why I have praised you and why I should like to take you all at your word .
This goal , in my view , does not justify the concerns raised here about a possible division in society between the haves and have-nots as far as access to information is concerned .
That is a task for the Council , Parliament and the Commission .
I wish us all a great deal of success in the interests of our citizens .
Mr President , Commissioner , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the successful work that has been done in so short a period of time .
An information society for all is certainly an area of focus for the Commissioner in this process .
It is important , and I thank her for it .
Agreement should be reached at Lisbon on the principles of the sustainable funding of social security on account of this notion .
We also have to reach agreement with management and labour , for example , on the subject of remote working and vocational training , if what we are talking about is an information society for all .
It will not be so if the basic rights of employees are not safeguarded .
There is a threat that , because of the Internet , services will become self-services , and that again is a major employment issue .
Another matter is that we have been deregulating the telecommunications industry for around ten years , and now , with these massive Internet players merging there is a fear that they will once again start regulating the market .
This , I think , should be stopped .
It cannot be allowed to happen and I expect the Commission to sit up and listen and take the necessary action .
Thirdly , the quoted share value for a certain Internet company rose by a sudden 4 000 % in one month , and this came about merely because unsubstantiated information was given about it for the stock market .
While stressing that many people had hoped for clearer answers in this area from the employment summit , I do not undervalue the relevance of the issue and the need to define a European strategy for the sector .
We all know the Union is lagging far behind the United States in this sensitive area , which is so vital to our future .
I concur with Mrs Read ' s report and , borrowing an expression used here by the President of the Council , Antnio Guterres , I want to highlight the three main deficits in the sector .
First there is the pragmatic deficit .
As the Read report correctly points out , the document put forward by the Commission is full of general guidelines and laudable intentions , but it is weak on concrete measures and ensuing actions .
I would not like to believe the Council ' s conclusions will be restricted to this list .
On this issue , as on others , we do not need more statements and speeches , we need measures and decisions that can reduce the huge lead the United States has on us .
Our first concern must be to prioritise our commitment to the educational system and in the carrier and telecommunications structures which make access to the Internet cheaper , faster and more powerful .
And finally there is the investment deficit .
As the report rightly affirms , the response to these problems cannot be left to the market alone .
Mr President , the point of the special summit in Lisbon next week is to define the European way in the future world of employment .
How can we become more competitive ?
How can we create new markets ?
How can we create permanent , more highly-qualified jobs ?
We can take one of the leading roles in tomorrow ' s global information society , provided that we learn the script .
Europe has talents .
Europe has skills .
Occasionally we lack competent directors to motivate us .
I personally feel that it is important for broad target groups to take an active part in these serious changes .
They need to familiarise themselves with the Internet and data bases from an early age .
Mrs Hieronymi pointed that out .
Schools without computers must become the exception .
We need a qualification offensive with computer-aided learning and active use of networks .
The European Parliament ' s Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is calling for the information society to become the common property of all citizens , including the socially weak , the disabled and older people .
The pace of change is hotting up in the European economy .
Undertakings are subject to constant restructuring , new holdings , strategic alliances and friendly or hostile takeovers .
The consequences for both employees and managers is the same : greater mobility and faster and faster adjustment .
Independence is increasing , as is pseudo-independence .
Within companies , responsibilities are changing .
Teams have shorter and shorter sell-by dates .
That has repercussions for the internal composition and the representation of the interests of employees .
Many companies are too small to set up works councils or are so large that relationships are not even forged and employee representatives become roving ambassadors .
People in ICT professions who have a great deal of freedom , analysts , engineers and creative planners , want to be their own bosses .
They are fighting for new working time regulations and new variable contract-based tariff and remuneration systems .
In addition , trade unions in other areas fear that unregulated structures will spread and social standards will drop .
Citizens must be familiar with new forms of work and working relations in the information and communications industry , be they in the hardware sector , the software sector , services or consultancy .
Mr President , I want to begin by thanking Mrs Read for all the work she has put into the present report .
It is wonderful that there should be such a lot of interest in this area .
I believe it is important that , here in the European Parliament , we should now promote further knowledge of these complex and exciting developments and create a readiness to implement the necessary changes .
Commissioner Liikanen , with his personal commitment , and the Commission ' s " e-Europe " document represent a positive vision of the new economy and a growth-orientated policy which I wholeheartedly support .
It is unfortunate that certain Members see the burgeoning information society as a threat , rather than appreciate the opportunities it involves .
The significance of e-commerce is difficult to overestimate .
In the wake of technological change , there will not only be changes to patterns of trade , but new opportunities will also be created where the arts , entertainment and personal contacts are concerned .
In order to best support the new economy , it is important that we as politicians should not believe that we can foresee companies ' and people ' s every need .
We must allow the market , that is to say purchasers and vendors , to choose for themselves .
In view of the way this part of society and of the economy looks , it is even more important not to engage in a fever of regulation by controlling activities in every detail .
Instead , we must further deregulate markets so as to increase competition with a view to reducing prices .
That is definitely the best way of making information services available to all citizens .
An important part of creating growth in the new economy is to increase the flow of venture capital for newly started-up and expanding businesses .
We must increase competitiveness and the development of ideas in our part of the world , that is to say in Europe .
To the left-hand side of this House , I would say , following the present debate : try to affirm the opportunities available to people because of the information revolution .
Avoid being so fearful and negative .
Take Mrs Villiers ' insights on board .
Adopt Mr Wijkman ' s global and positive attitude , and learn from young Mrs Kauppi ' s experiences .
I do not think we should underestimate the problem of making the relevant adjustments , but do not bury this initiative in your old conceptual world .
That would be Europe ' s loss .
We welcome the contribution of Parliament to this very important policy debate .
The Commission is currently contributing to the preparation of next week 's summit in Lisbon .
To this end , the Commission has adopted several communications including a progress report on e-Europe last week and a paper setting out an agenda for economic and social renewal for Europe two weeks ago .
I find it very important that Parliament is participating through today 's debate in the discussions before the Lisbon Summit .
The debate has been really illuminating and has shown the great interest and also the expertise of Parliament on this issue .
We hope that the Lisbon European Council will endorse concrete , focused policy actions providing a strong signal that European leaders are determined to transform Europe into a dynamic and competitive economy .
As to the content of your reports , I note that you have expressed concern that mechanisms through which the targets of e-Europe are to be achieved are not made explicit in our initial document .
In this context , the progress report submitted by the Commission to the Lisbon Council last week and also submitted to you last week will provide further details .
In addition , there will be an e-Europe action plan by June as requested at the Helsinki Summit .
I am particularly pleased to see that the report shares the Commission 's view on the key elements of e-Europe .
It is essential to create a modern multimedia high-performance e-infrastructure , to create legal certainty in e-commerce , to counteract the skills shortage and to improve the availability of risk capital to stimulate innovation .
Your support to move forward on these key elements of e-Europe is most welcome .
I find the idea of organising an e-government conference highly interesting .
It is important that we in the European institutions , along with Member States , develop effective means of exploiting the potential of regional technologies , to increase both the efficiency and transparency of our interactions with citizens .
I can report to you that this will be one of the main topics of a ministerial conference organised by the Portuguese presidency in Lisbon in early April .
I would also like to add that the White Paper on the Commission 's internal reform contains an " e-Commission " action .
The aim is to enhance the Commission 's IT and communications infrastructure in order to provide better service by means of the Internet .
I would like to briefly respond to some items where the emphasis of the discussion has perhaps been a little different from the Commission document .
The Commission is asked to include an eleventh action line on employment and social cohesion .
I fully accept that these are very high priorities , and for that very reason particular communications have been accepted on these subjects .
I would like to mention especially the communication " Strategies for Jobs in the Information Society " .
I also agree with you that the information society is perhaps the biggest opportunity for structural policies and policies for cohesion that we have had , because it means the death of distance .
The " e-Europe " communication focuses on the actions necessary to accelerate the transition to the information society .
These actions will result in increasing numbers of jobs and will thereby reduce the principal cause of social exclusion , namely unemployment .
Your report expresses concern about the smart card action .
I would like to assure you that this action is not intended to intervene in an area that , the report rightly notes , is market-driven .
The Commission 's role is purely a facilitating one , bringing together the key actors and enabling them to move towards agreement on standard approaches .
The aim is not to disadvantage other technologies .
Finally , I would like to close by thanking you once again for your work in this area .
The efforts which you have made confirm that you share with us a sense of the importance and urgency of this issue for Europe .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place at 12 noon .
Vote
Mr President , the debate on my report on the European Union ' s action plans on asylum-seekers and migrants has been postponed until this evening at 6 p.m. , and the vote until tomorrow at 9 a.m.
I would like to see the importance of the issue reflected in the debate and vote in this House .
So I would ask you to put it to the House that the debate be deferred to the next part-session in Brussels .
( Parliament agreed to the request )
Before these votes are taken , I think it is important for this House and the Bureau to decide , finally , whether the Strasbourg sittings finish on Thursday or if there should still be sittings on Fridays .
Mr President , I have asked to take the floor simply because the Italian translation of paragraph 6c is very strange .
We have sent a note in this regard , but nothing has been done about it , and so I would ask you now to investigate the matter .
The text appears to be saying that violations of fundamental rights are permitted if the European Parliament is in agreement , which seems rather absurd to me .
Mr President , I would like to draw attention to the text of paragraph 6 ( c ) , in line with the doubts raised by Mrs Frassoni .
I do not know if this is a language problem or a political problem , given the speeches we have heard here about Austrian political rights .
We always have a check on the language versions to make sure they conform to the original language version at the end of the votes .
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
Mr President , one other brief point .
It violates the Rules of Procedure and should not happen again .
I have some sympathy with that remark .
Perhaps we should ask the Rules of Procedure Committee to look at the precise procedural methods we use here .
It is very clear that if a report has come from a committee , the committee can request referral back .
But when it has been set on the agenda at the beginning of the week I am not clear that Members can move deferral .
I was not sure , so we should refer it to the Rules Committee .
The Commission has not expressed its opinion on that .
The Council of State ruled that the procedure had not been respected , i.e. that the mayors and regional and local authorities , organisations and associations concerned had not been consulted .
We do not know exactly what the situation is at present .
To ensure that Member States are not unjustly penalised , I move that the vote on this report be deferred until the Commission has delivered its reasoned opinion on action to be taken following the Council of State decree .
I also think Parliament cannot be both judge and judged .
We could have a long debate about this but rather than get into a procedural wrangle , you are not , strictly speaking , entitled to move this .
I am not going to debate it .
The easier thing is to put it to the vote .
( Parliament rejected the proposal )
My second point is that we do not believe it is in the remit of the legislative authority to decide whether the laws have been transposed . That is up to the Commission and also the Court of Justice .
Mr President , I simply wanted to say that if Mrs Lienemann was so worried it is a pity she did not take part in the debate and make her points to the Commissioner during the debate .
Mr President , I agree with that remark , for I am surprised at some of the statements made here .
This is in fact the first time this kind of observation , which was not heard in committee , has been made , and I regret it .
Today we are to vote on this resolution , which is why we are asking for a vote on the work done in committee .
With reference to the Rules of Procedure , I would therefore take the liberty of proposing that the matter be postponed and referred back to committee .
Moreover , Mrs Jackson , I tabled numerous amendments calling for the series of paragraphs you had proposed to be deleted .
My amendments were not adopted in committee and I therefore felt it was not acceptable for us to continue on these bases .
Mrs Isler Bguin was not in committee on the days we discussed these subjects .
You will find exactly the same arguments I have put forward today in the Minutes of the committee meeting and in my amendments .
I know we have a great deal of work in committee and that colleagues cannot always remember amendments in detail , which I fully understand .
However , I wanted to point this out .
Mr President , I am sorry , I have been trying to catch your attention but you are going very fast , on which I congratulate you .
On Mrs Jackson ' s report , I just want to say that I did not take part in the vote for similar reasons to Mrs Lienemann .
I believe respect for Community law must be general and cannot be based on selective , and therefore necessarily arbitrary , interpretations .
I ask for it to be recorded in the Minutes that I did not take part in the vote .
Concerning paragraph 45 :
Mr President , before we vote on paragraph 45 , I would like the rapporteur to hear what I have to say .
I would like to know whether this clause has the same meaning in his language .
Would the rapporteur be so kind as to inform us whether his version is the authentic version , for , if so , the meaning is the complete opposite to the Italian .
Mr President , I believe I can shed some light on the matter .
I have read the French version of the text , and it is completely different from the Italian version at this point .
This a serious translation error .
I feel sure that the Italian is a mistranslation .
The original version probably said " not to imprison young people who commit offences , except in special cases " .
I think this is the root of the problem .
I am able to confirm that it is Mr Imbeni ' s interpretation which is the correct one .
The French , Danish and English versions are correct .
The phrase is to be understood as Mr Imbeni said .
Mr President , if we change the meaning of the paragraph , the debate will start all over again .
It is a common occurrence in this Parliament for texts not to correspond .
Do you remember when , a few months ago , we were told to distribute condoms to priests ?
This time , according to some versions , we are told to protect child abusers .
If we change the English version as well , Mr President , we will have to start the debate afresh and , seeing as your plane leaves at 4.30 this afternoon , this does not seem appropriate .
Maybe it would be better to stop at the comma , after " physical and psychological abuse and all kinds of discrimination " .
We could then deal with the behaviour of young people who commit offences later on , in one of the many other reports which are churned out by Parliament .
Mr President , the rapporteur clearly explained the meaning of the text in the sense referred to by Mr Imbeni .
You have read the English version of the text , which is accepted by the overwhelming majority of those present .
I really must ask you to allow us to continue the vote , especially as these little semantic games always come from the people who take no part in the technical work in committee .
That would overcome all the difficulty .
There is no ambiguity , there is no uncertainty .
Mr President , a number of words have been omitted from paragraph 61 of the Danish version .
It is the English version which is correct .
In the Danish version , the following words should be added after the words " trade unions " : " as well as the rights of individuals vis--vis trade unions " .
It is , then , not only a question of the right to form trade unions but also of rights vis--vis these trade unions .
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
Mr President , I should like to make a point of order .
We voted on this report in committee , a committee on which all groups are represented .
We dealt with 170 amendments to this report in committee .
We have now been presented with 66 amendments in plenary .
This is not a legislative report .
If the House continues to organise its business in this way we will not only be a laughing-stock but we will fail to get through the very serious business that we have .
We ask the appropriate bodies in this House to look again at the way in which we organise our work .
As it happens , we have a report by Mr Provan in which the Bureau is looking at how the plenary functions .
We had a debate on that in the Bureau on Tuesday and I made exactly the point you have just made .
So I agree with you one hundred percent .
Mr President , this is only the fourth point of order I have raised in nearly eleven years as an MEP , so I hope you will listen .
I want to ask you and those others who preside over these sessions to be much more strict about points of order .
That hardly constitutes a point of order .
I ask you - and I echo Mr Watson 's point of order - to take those points back to your President and co-Vice-Presidents and ask them to be much tougher .
It might make you unpopular in the short-run but I think it would make you loved and admired in the long-run .
I am usually accused of being too brusque with Members who want to make a point of order .
I suppose I cannot win .
The trouble is that when people ask for the floor on a point of order you do not know if it is a valid point until they have made it .
Mr President , you mentioned that you wanted to break off now .
I urgently request that you continue the vote .
We are fed up with constant changes to the agenda and postponements at short notice .
I therefore ask that you quickly resume and complete the vote on the Ludford report and the rest of the agenda .
I agree with Mr Pirker , and it is probably the only thing I will agree with him on if we do vote on the Ludford report .
It is going to be an interesting vote .
It is unreasonable at this stage to postpone it to a time when a lot of people will have left .
If you are intending to postpone it to 5.30 p.m. , it will totally distort the vote on this report .
I urge that we carry on now , understanding all the difficulties that you have mentioned .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I understand what is being asked here .
But what I have to say to you is this : take a look around the House , it has already voted , with its feet !
The members have already left !
We cannot work seriously if we follow the procedure which you have suggested , Mr President ; nor can we do so if we work here with random majorities .
Now more members may have left from one group than from other and that may well distort the vote on the Ludford report .
Even the rapporteur does not want that .
For the rest , we can still vote at 5.30 this evening .
That is quite in order .
I think we should work here with a properly-ordered procedure .
We have already overrun by 45 minutes .
I suggest that we vote this evening .
In fact , every time Parliament decides to deal with the issue of long voting sessions it ends up suppressing the rights of the individual Members .
The point is , that part-sessions run from Monday to Friday , and if you have to leave earlier for some reason , then that is your problem , not the fault of the voting session .
Mr President , I should like to request that it not be taken this evening .
The vote will be totally distorted .
We know that a lot of people will leave this afternoon .
They do not expect this kind of vote on a Thursday afternoon .
Could we not postpone it until the April plenary session in Strasbourg ?
I am afraid that would have to be decided before we take the vote this evening .
This is shameful .
We have been here for less than two hours and we have already had enough .
What would sailors , pilots , drivers , petrol station workers and doctors say ?
I find it absolutely absurd that we are not able to work for more than two hours at a time .
You are just making the point that I made when I said we could not carry on with the votes .
Mr President , I think the translation of Mr Speroni ' s speech may not have been entirely correct . He appeared to me to be saying the complete opposite regarding the decision taken .
Mr President , in order to be completely fair , you should have called for one intervention for the decision to suspend the sitting or continue and adhere to the scheduled voting time and one intervention against .
Once again , the wishes of the Chamber have been disregarded . Democracy only exists on paper : it is not applied within this Parliament .
Mr President , I am sorry but I asked for the floor at the start .
Two specific points .
First , I wanted to vote for , not against proposed amendment 24 .
We have done so for years and we can be flexible one way or the other pretty much as we please .
Perhaps all the members should be reminded of that .
Members are supposed to work here through to Friday , so that we can use the afternoons to see our visitors .
Mr President , perhaps I can be of help here .
The rapporteur has stated that she agrees with your suggestion , i.e. with the President ' s suggestion .
Allow me to recapitulate : the President said that we are to vote at 5.30 this evening on whether or not to postpone the vote until the next plenary session .
Please let us proceed thus .
Sarah Ludford has stated that she agrees with that .
So , we vote at 5.30 p.m. on postponing the Ludford report to the next plenary session .
That is my motion .
There is absolutely no problem with that .
It is well within the Rules .
It can be done immediately before the vote .
It is normal procedure .
That is why I cannot take it now .
The Rules say you move postponement before the vote on the matter .
That concludes the votes .
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE - Graefe zu Baringdorf report ( A5-0044 / 2000 )
We need to pay close attention to the issue of animal health , particularly that of bovine animals and swine , hence the importance of sanitary inspections in intra-Community trade in these species .
This approach must also take account of the need to put more effort into the total eradication of diseases like leucosis , tuberculosis and brucellosis , and into adequate health procedures .
So it is essential that intervention in future makes it possible to protect both the interests of consumers and the interests of producers , especially of small farmers .
Ferrer report ( A5-0066 / 2000 )
- ( DA ) We cannot vote in favour of the report since there are gross abuses of human rights in Mexico .
That has most recently been demonstrated in an Amnesty report from December 1999 which draws attention to , among other things , the serious problems in the Chiapas region .
A democracy clause was also built into the old trade agreement with Mexico , but this was not complied with .
Pressure must therefore be exerted upon Mexico through international organisations such as the UN and via individual nations .
Only after that , and when there have been significant improvements in the area of human rights , do we think that we can enter into a new trade agreement with Mexico .
- ( FR ) At its meeting of 7 May 1999 , the European Parliament adopted the EU-Mexico Global Agreement even though none of its Members knew the terms of negotiation of its trade aspects .
The association agreement was designed to serve the interests of the large transnational firms on either side of the Atlantic , as shown by the wording of its Title IV , which refers to capital movements and related payments .
Under the heading of trade , we find a repeat of several of the most dangerous points of the MAI ( Multilateral Agreement on Investments ) .
For all those reasons , we shall vote against ratifying this agreement .
Never before has Mexico made so many concessions to a much stronger trading partner as it is now making to the European Union .
The impact on Mexico cannot be quantified , although the NAFTA agreement has already resulted in the impoverishment of large sections of the Mexican population and the demise of small undertakings .
The rules of the agreement on which we have voted go even further than those of the NAFTA agreement .
For example , the liberalisation of investments which is championed covers all sectors of the economy .
In other words it is a mini-MAI .
The drop in the standard of living and the inequalities between the European Union and Mexico which already exist will be exacerbated yet further .
It is obvious that the European side , especially Europe ' s large corporate groups , will profit from the agreement with Mexico .
It is a gift to large-scale European industry .
However , it will do nothing to improve the living and working conditions of the Mexicans , on the contrary .
There is no mention in the agreement of employee rights or social standards .
It contradicts development policy objectives and for this reason among others Mexican NGOs and other parties have asked their Senate not to sign this agreement .
The EU is trying to use individual agreements with developing and newly-industrialised countries in order to implement what it failed to achieve at the WTO conference of ministers in Seattle , partly due to the resistance of developing countries .
Its main objective in the present case is to gain access to the lucrative NAFTA area via Mexico .
The living conditions of the people have been disregarded .
This agreement does not bring about the progress needed in relations between Europe and Mexico , nor is it a suitable model for similar agreements to be concluded in the future , for example with Mercosur .
Agreements with developing countries must serve their interests first and foremost , not the interests of European corporate groups .
Joint resolution on the annual legislative programme
Mr President , I want to give the explanation on behalf of the Liberal Group in respect of the Commission 's legislative programme .
Having put this marker down for this time , in the future we would like to see the process reviewed so that it amounts to more than just ourselves as a Parliament swapping lists with the Commission .
We want something more substantial and meaningful .
- ( FR ) We voted against the joint motion for a resolution because it means granting a full discharge to the European Commission in advance and we disapprove of that in terms of both form and content .
Duff / Voggenhuber report ( A5-0064 / 2000 )
Mr President , we heard many speakers from the federalist majority of this Parliament say here yesterday that the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights under preparation would give a big boost to citizens ' rights .
However , the conditions under which this initiative was put forward tend more to reflect contempt for the life of the citizens and give us cause for serious concern about what will happen next .
First of all , a few months ago , we discovered , tucked away in the Cologne conclusions , in paragraphs 44 and 45 , the decision to start drafting a Charter of Fundamental Rights .
Who was consulted beforehand ?
No one , and certainly not the national parliaments , who had never heard of it .
All the same , however , we must remember that basically fundamental rights come within the remit of the national parliaments and , as a whole , of the various peoples of Europe .
In any case , whatever its final form , the national parliaments should not have been sidelined .
They are now involved in the Convention to draft the Charter , but only as one partner among others , which will guarantee an imperfect job .
Worse still , they will not even be involved in the final stage , since the Cologne conclusions provide that the Charter will be proclaimed jointly by the Council , the European Parliament and the Commission .
Yes , I did say " the Commission " .
So the national parliaments find themselves sidelined and replaced by a body of officials who will ' proclaim the Charter ' .
That is quite ludicrous !
Democracy is sidelined , supposedly for the good of the citizens .
But then is that not how Europe usually works ?
Mr President , I voted for the report despite many misgivings because it included Mrs Morgan ' s excellent proposed amendment on minority languages and cultures .
I would also like to have seen support for Mr Vidal ' s proposal .
But I think that we have taken an important step here towards greater protection of minorities traditionally present in the European Union .
We cannot keep setting criteria for candidate countries which we fail to meet ourselves .
A European constitution could provide the initial impetus for a superstate of this kind .
I have , therefore , supported a number of amendments tabled by the UEN Group and the EDD Group with regard to the Duff-Voggenhuber report .
If the parties of the TDI Group had taken a consistent line on the equivalence of all people and on democracy , I would certainly have supported their amendments .
However , I had to consider their view of the world in my deliberations . Of all the groups represented here , it is their view that takes least account of equivalence , democracy and human rights .
This is why I was unable to support their proposals .
Mr President , this week Parliament has dealt with the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights and we have specified - adequately I believe - the civil rights of individuals .
In this increasingly global world , some people want to impose homogeneity on us , as if we were all soldiers or units in a production chain .
So I want to claim the right to an individual and collective identity , the right to diversity and difference .
That is definitely a fundamental right worth defending in the European Union .
- ( DA ) The Danish and Swedish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of the report by Mr Andrew Nicholas Duff and Mr Johannes Voggenhuber regarding drawing up a European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights .
We are in favour of the drawing up of a Charter of Fundamental Rights in the form of a political document .
In this period of reforms of the EU , including its enlargement , it is important to focus upon the fact that the EU ' s raison d ' tre is to protect individual citizens .
A Charter could make a positive contribution to this .
In drawing up a Charter of Fundamental Rights , there is always a certain danger of citizens ' viewing it simply as a meaningless piece of paper , to be waved on state occasions but destined to disappoint .
A majority of the European Parliament is therefore calling for the Charter to be of binding effect and to be incorporated into the Treaty , in other words for the agenda of the current Intergovernmental Conference to be extended .
In connection with previous votes on this subject , we have clearly expressed our view that there should be no more issues on the agenda than it will be possible to resolve at the Nice Summit in December .
We have already emphasised that no more obstacles should be put in the way of enlargement of the Union .
It is therefore unrealistic to expect the issues to have been resolved by December .
For that reason alone , we do not think that fundamental rights should be on the agenda of the current Intergovernmental Conference .
We have made this known in the individual votes en route to the report .
It is therefore a matter of urgency that the Nice Summit should be able to make decisions concerning the Amsterdam leftovers .
The Charter is an expression of the EU ' s ambition to bring the EU closer to its citizens .
Our point of departure is that the work on reviewing the treaties must progress following the Nice Summit and that the EU ' s Charter of Fundamental Rights should form part of this on-going process .
- ( DA ) The European Parliament ' s report on the Charter is characterised by one pervasive idea : the desire for EU citizenship in a supranational State , whether one likes that term or not .
This way of thinking is fundamentally different from our own vision of a European Community .
The Union is , and should remain , a union of States .
It must therefore be ensured that the Charter does not in any way interfere with the Member States ' national constitutions or equivalent arrangements for establishing fundamental rights .
Moreover , we do not wish to see two sets of rights on the European continent - one for citizens of EU countries and another for citizens of non-EU countries .
It is therefore crucial for any EU Charter not to affect existing international conventions and declarations of rights , but merely to require that EU countries sign these .
Growing problems arise when the EU acquires more and more powers as a State but cannot be bound in relation to , for example , the European Convention on Human Rights .
Nor do we support the constitutional process of which the adoption of a Charter is an integral part .
We prefer the Treaty to state that the EU ' s authorities respect the competence and decisions of the Court of Human Rights .
Legal practice of this kind makes it possible to condemn an aspect of Community law which is open to criticism and which has arisen through a Member State ' s use of that law .
The European Court of Justice should not have jurisdiction over areas already covered by the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg or by other international bodies .
If the existing conventions are found to be inadequate , for example , because bio-technological developments give rise to new problems , then this is an international problem to which international solutions should be sought .
It is not solely a concern of the EU , and we must seek international and global consensus in international forums .
We are therefore voting against the whole report .
- ( FR ) Our abstention from the vote on the Charter certainly does not mean we are opposed to its European character .
On the contrary , we are persuaded that in future we shall see a Europe without frontiers between unified nations , from one end of the continent to the other .
However , the European institutions , like the national institutions , tend far more to represent the interests of big capital than the interests of the people as a whole , and especially of the working people .
Democratic rights and freedoms , like democracy itself , can only be genuinely expressed so long as they do not conflict with the interests of large industrial and financial groups .
That Charter will be a vital step towards the political deepening of the European Union , under the appropriate conditions .
These people need a document to which they can refer when they take their case before the European Court of Justice .
So we must provide for direct resort to that Court in accordance with certain procedures .
As the representative of the people of the European Union , our Parliament must take a very careful look at the contents of this document .
The people of Europe expect us to take a very bold approach here .
Our demands are quite clear .
The Charter must have fully binding legal status by being incorporated in the Treaty .
To that end , the Committee on Constitutional Affairs calls on the Council to put the Charter on the ICG agenda .
Any amendment of the Charter must come under the same procedure as its original drafting procedure , which means it would require the assent of the European Parliament .
The European Parliament must approve any secondary legislation that might have a bearing on these fundamental rights .
The Charter must be binding upon the Member States when applying or transposing provisions of Community law .
Turning to the actual content of the Charter , it would seem advisable to divide up these rights into three categories .
Let me conclude by saying that this Charter must form the key component of a process leading to the drafting of a European Union constitution .
We need more time and debate on these potential conflicts .
We welcome such a Charter of Fundamental Rights which can also , of course , include rights under existing international conventions signed by the Member States .
At the same time , human rights must be regarded as an international and global issue and not only as a matter for EU citizens .
We are , however , hesitant about making such a Charter legally binding before it has been fully clarified what that would mean in practice .
The relationship between the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights appears , for example , to be legally complicated and could undermine the European Convention on Human Rights .
We believe that there are a number of questions which ought to be investigated before one particular model is opted for exclusively .
We are therefore abstaining from voting in the final vote .
- This report confirms our worst fears about the intentions of some people in relation to the Charter and that is why we have voted against it .
We are not voting against a Charter itself , but so far the process seems to suggest a wasted opportunity to protect the citizens of Europe from the overburdening powers of the European Institutions .
There is a gap to be filled in providing fundamental rights to citizens of the Member States concerning European regulation and legislation .
This report turns its back on this need and thereby devalues the potential of the Charter .
We prefer a different approach , under which economic aspects must always come second to the satisfaction of human and environmental needs .
A Charter of this kind should be based on the most progressive acquis and combine social and democratic rights .
A Charter of that kind would offer support to all those men and women who are fighting against a Europe that lays off workers or expels immigrants who do not have the proper identity papers .
I do not take the view that this charter should contain enforceable economic and social rights .
These are subject to the employment law of the Member States and the autonomy of the social partners .
- ( SV ) We welcome the work which has now begun on preparing an EU Charter of Fundamental Rights .
A Charter of this kind will have a very important symbolic value and will strengthen the confidence of our citizens in the EU and in European integration .
The Charter of Fundamental Rights should be seen as complementing the European Convention on Human Rights , which we believe should be incorporated into the Treaty .
The Charter should concentrate on the relationship between citizens and the European institutions . Its primary objective should be to guarantee that the Union is governed openly .
We would emphasise the subsidiarity principle and the fact that the Charter should concentrate on the fundamental freedoms and rights of citizens , as presented in accordance with the Member States ' common constitutional traditions .
We would emphasise the importance of the social dimension in the EU ' s activities but consider that social policy is mainly a question for each individual Member State to decide upon .
- ( FR ) The Charter of Fundamental Rights is the latest manifestation of the drift of Community legislation towards a constitution .
Yet what worries me most is the content that is to be given to these rights .
Indeed , at this same part-session we are discussing reports by the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms which reflect a libertarian vision of society .
Our society will no longer have a common destiny ; instead it will be based on a juxtaposition of ' minorities ' which each have their own rights but no common obligation .
The conclusion I draw from these texts is that the just fight for human rights has become the ideological plaything of irresponsible and selfish individuals .
- British Labour Members fully support a Charter of Fundamental Rights which makes visible citizens ' rights across the EU .
However , we are at a very early stage in the process of determining the Charter .
It is therefore too early to say what should be legally binding .
This decision will be made at a later stage as recognised by the report itself in Paragraph 6 .
That Paragraph also states that any legally binding status recognises that Fundamental Rights are indivisible by making the Charter applicable to all the European Union 's institutions and bodies and all its policies .
This is a recognisable aim which British Labour Members would support .
As the final Charter text is not available , we are supporting the Charter in principle but awaiting the final version .
This is a complex process which needs clarity and precision at all stages to ensure that the end result is a positive and visible step forward for people in all EU countries .
- ( DA ) The European Union rests upon fundamental principles of freedom , democracy and respect for human rights .
In my view , a declaration would be more appropriate .
The European Convention on Human Rights is an excellent tool for protecting human rights in Europe .
It involves enforcing these rights on the basis of judgements given by the Court of Human Rights , which has developed considerable expertise in this area , as well as extensive case law .
The Convention also has the advantage of not being limited in scope to the area of the EU but of operating in relation to almost the whole of the European continent .
At the same time , it is the European Court of Justice ' s practice to take account of the national fundamental rights applicable in the Member States .
This practice could be affected if the EU were to obtain its own set of fundamental and human rights .
Jackson resolution ( B5-0227 / 2000 )
My Group voted in favour of the Jackson resolution on Structural Funds in the environment because we believe in the principle of ensuring effective implementation of environmental law - in this case , the wild birds and habitats directive .
However , we are surprised that Members of this House voted for the original proposal in paragraph 7 to cut off funds to some of our poorest regions in the EU .
Indeed , the Commissioner , in a response to the debate , said she would not be stopping approval of key funding programmes .
I therefore welcome the fact that this House voted by a majority against cutting off resources .
The Commissioner would , in any case , have had no legal competence to stop approval and therefore I am glad that , at the end of the day , common sense has prevailed in our vote .
- ( DE ) It would appear that Community environmental protection does not have its own lobby at the Community institutions .
There is no other explanation as to why the Commission gave way yesterday and suddenly decided to reinterpret the Structural Funds regulation .
That was unnecessary in that the regulation fully covered the Commission ' s demand for FFH lists to be submitted together with the plans at the latest and per se leaves the Commission no room for manoeuvre here .
The Structural Funds regulation also states that this ex-ante evaluation should include an assessment of the environmental situation , especially in areas which might be influenced by Structural Fund intervention .
The Commission is therefore duty bound to ensure that the documents notify it of potential areas subject to European nature conservation before it approves the plans .
The Commission is deluding itself if it thinks that it can use Article 39 to recoup what it has failed to obtain during ex-ante evaluation .
How can the Commission be credible vis--vis the European citizens if it is unable to implement its own requirements ?
By giving in , the Commission has lost the confidence of many who see sustainable development as a chance for the next generation .
- ( FR ) The French members of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group are very concerned with preserving the natural heritage in general and the environmentally sensitive areas in particular .
We share the desire to protect an environment which it is our duty to pass on intact to our children .
That is a laudable and necessary ambition .
The only result of this kind of overload is to paralyse the economic players a little more each day and to hold back freedom of enterprise .
We therefore categorically reject Mrs Jackson ' s proposal to link payments from the Structural Funds to the transposing by Member States of EU environmental legislation .
Malmstrm report ( A5-0060 / 2000 )
Mr President , I would like , as a matter of priority , to thank Parliament for lending its support to aid for Mongolia .
I hope this will lead to a much more proactive approach on the part of the Commission , as I have not seen a sign of this yet .
It may not occupy centre stage but is very needy despite this .
This Parliament has noticed this and offered its support , and I urge the Commission to take this message extremely seriously and to grant this aid .
Within the European Union , one of the fundamental rights of man , the right to make an adequate living from his labour , is being trampled underfoot for nearly 20 million men and women .
A fairly substantial proportion of immigrant workers , those regarded as not having the proper papers , is being deprived of any legal existence .
All the while , outside the European Union , several of its Member States , among the most powerful of them , are supporting , arming and financing vile dictatorships , especially in their former colonial empire .
And what about that manifestation of respect for human rights that took the form , for several weeks , of bombing Kosovo and Serbia ?
Under these circumstances , we are abstaining from the vote on this report .
As you know , the EU ' s international action to promote and protect human rights is based on several instruments , including the CFSP and development cooperation .
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam , the European Union has become more visible on the international stage thanks to the appointment of a CFSP High Representative , in the person of Javier Solana .
The Treaty of Amsterdam has made respect for human rights one of the main objectives of the EU ' s common foreign and security policy .
The European Union has many instruments available in this field .
There are also specific and horizontal actions relating to a given policy . They include , in particular , the fight to abolish the death penalty .
This clause does not change the fundamental nature of these agreements but does enable both parties to reaffirm respect for certain common values and principles as the precondition for any form of cooperation , economic or other .
Yet the rapporteur feels that the current European human rights policy is fragmented and needs to be replaced by a coherent common strategy marked by closer interinstitutional cooperation .
Obviously I agree with that .
The report also emphasises that the EU strategy must give priority to systematically abolishing the discrimination suffered by women .
I want to express my unconditional support for that demand !
- The European Parliamentary Labour Party voted against Amendment No 7 because we do not feel that a reference to the supposed ' Echelon ' network is appropriate to this report .
Allegations that such an ' Echelon network ' exists are based on hearsay and circumstantial evidence .
Furthermore , the democratic oversight of national intelligence services is , in any case , primarily a matter for national parliaments .
The United Kingdom has one of the most effective systems of democratic oversight , both political and judicial , of its intelligence services in the world .
Political oversight is exercised by a House of Commons committee , which has full access to documentation .
Moreover , the intelligence operations of third countries , including the United States , operating in cooperation with British intelligence services within the United Kingdom , are also subject to the same democratic oversight .
- British Conservatives are in the forefront of those seeking to improve human rights in many parts of the world .
While there is much in the Malmstrm resolution that we can support , unfortunately there are significant elements that have been included which we find unacceptable .
For example , we do not share the enthusiasm for an EU Charter of Fundamental Rights .
We are sceptical about demands for substantial increases in expenditure and bureaucratic activity and in the role of EC-funded NGOs .
We are concerned that it is minority differences that are stimulated , with little emphasis on integration .
We are concerned at the extension of the concept of human rights to include , for example , domestic violence , which is properly a matter to be handled under other legal instruments .
We are opposed to the introduction of sweeping new categories of eligibility for asylum , which would be open to abuse .
Many of us do not support the abolition of capital punishment in principle .
And we are suspicious about proposals to impose further codes of conduct on business .
It is for these reasons that British Conservatives have voted against the Malmstrm resolution .
Haarder report ( A5-0050 / 2000 )
The supporters of that theory should get their act together .
Mr President , I should like to follow on from what Mrs Lulling has just said .
I should like to say that Mr Haarder has made an exemplary effort to bring about a consensus .
As a result , his report was far better than all the previous reports .
The German constitution offers marriage and the family special protection and that has nothing to do with the violation of human rights .
On the contrary , it is a guarantee of human rights .
Marriage and the family form the basis for human rights , as does the right to life .
I therefore believe that these points should have been left out of the human rights report .
If they had , the House would have voted unanimously in favour of this human rights report because , apart from that , Mr Haarder has presented an exemplary piece of work .
Mr President , I note with some surprise that I am bringing up the rear , despite having been the first to request the floor in writing .
Secondly , I should also like to note that , broadly speaking , my Group supports the Haarder report and expressly highlights the fact that there was excellent cooperation with the rapporteur .
At last we have before us a report which duly deals with the subject , the stated period and enforceable rights .
Hence our support in principle .
I am therefore able to tell the House that both Felix Habsburg-Lothringen and Karl Ludwig Habsburg-Lothringen have valid passports without any form of restriction .
The call on Austria to take action in relation to freedom of movement is therefore devoid of any substance .
- ( FR ) In adopting the Haarder report on human rights in the European Union , the European Parliament has just committed one of those aberrations that are so common they must be part of its nature .
Among others , it is calling for equal rights of all kinds between same-sex couples and the traditional family , together with lowering the age of consent for same-sex relations .
That same article defines the family in terms of the marriage between a man and a woman .
That service is a very good reason for granting the family special advantages , reserved to it alone .
By ignoring that vital law , the Haarder report shows that in this respect , as in many others , the European instruments go against not only the nations but also against society itself .
- ( DA ) We support the general recommendations in the report to the Member States regarding compliance with the international conventions on human rights .
We are not in favour of the new institutional arrangements proposed in the report or in favour of the proposal that the EU should establish a common legal framework and a common policy on refugees and asylum seekers .
An EU Charter of Fundamental Rights would not in itself help improve the human situation , either at European or international level .
We have , however , chosen to vote in favour of the report in spite of what I have just said , for we think it is extremely important to fight for improved human rights in Europe .
This is an issue which requires deeper analysis .
Overlapping and conflicts between the Court of Justice of the European Communities and the European Court of Human Rights should , in any event , be avoided .
- I believe that this is a good report and deserves support .
However , problems arise in the detail of paragraphs 52 , 53 , 54 and 56 . I voted for these paragraphs because I agree with the objectives of the rapporteur .
I would , however , like to ensure that my voting intentions are not misinterpreted .
In relation to paragraph 52 I support the right of individual conscience .
In stating this principle I would also like to make it absolutely clear that this in no way implies that I personally support abortion .
With regard to paragraphs 53 , 54 and 56 I oppose discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation .
I would , however , add a few caveats .
Firstly , I do not support the right of gay couples to adopt .
Secondly , I do not support the lowering of the age of consent below 18 years of age .
With these clarifications entered for the record I am happy to vote for Mr Haarder 's report .
- On balance , this is an excellent report with the exception of paragraphs 52 to 56 .
This section is poorly drafted and ambiguous . It deals with issues that are firmly in the competence of each Member State , and should so remain .
Yet I would also like to draw my colleagues ' attention to two requests made in the report , which I find problematic .
Paragraph 19 of the report , concerning the protection of national minorities , and paragraph 20 , calling for the ratification of the Charter for Regional and Minority Languages , pose real problems .
Parliament firmly rejects abuses of fundamental freedoms throughout Europe , as the Haarder report emphasises .
But we regret that it alludes to the rights of ' national minorities ' , an expression that is far more restrictive than the universal concept of ' human rights ' .
Furthermore , we support the idea of an indivisible political community , within which ethnic origin is not eclipsed but regarded as being of secondary importance .
The Republic cannot recognise specific ' minorities ' or ' communities ' : in its view there are only autonomous and free citizens with equal rights .
In view of our convictions we must also express strong reservations about paragraph 20 of the report , which refers to the Charter for Regional and Minority Languages .
Everyone is free to use one or several languages of his or her choice in addition to the language of the Republic and everyone has the right to learn them at school .
But the fact remains that this is a choice and not an obligation .
I will , nevertheless , vote for Mr Haarder ' s report because of its quality and its underlying philosophy .
It is not the primary function of this parliament to produce extensive and controversial additions to current legislation and extra channels of redress on an assumption that these should automatically be acceptable simply because they have been proposed .
All of us want human rights to be uppermost in the minds of national and European legislators .
In most cases they are .
- ( EL ) Once more , the hypocrisy of the European Union is evident both in the state of , and respect for , human rights within the Union and in its international policy on these matters .
The European Union turns a blind eye to situations in which human rights are being savagely violated in order to protect its imperialistic interests .
Its attitude towards the Turkish regime is a blatant example .
Elsewhere , the particularly sensitive issue of human rights is being used as an excuse for intervention , even military intervention , so as to impose specific policies and particular courses of action .
The very policy which the EU and its Member States are pursuing from within is leading to human rights being subverted and becoming dead letter .
The effects of this policy are already visible in the rise of extremist , fascist powers and racist perceptions , and not just in Austria .
The report on combating racism does not demonstrate that the necessary conclusions have been reached .
We therefore condemn the EU ' s attempts to use human rights as a pretext in order to reinforce its anti-grass roots and anti-democratic nature and intervene further to the detriment of the people .
We call on the people to be vigilant and to stop their self-proclaimed saviours trampling on their rights .
We also urge them to fight for solutions which will guarantee that their rights are promoted and flourish .
For these reasons , the three Members of the European Parliament of the Greek Communist Party will abstain from voting .
- ( FR ) I want to draw a parallel between the reports by Mrs Ludford and Mr Haarder and the report by Messrs Duff and Voggenhuber .
The European Parliament is proposing to take part in drafting a European Charter of Fundamental Rights .
And why not ?
Nonetheless , we cannot see how this additional document can contribute to the fight for human rights , except by injecting a little more legal confusion .
And , above all , what are we to think of our House ' s concept of these rights ?
We can get an initial sketchy idea from reading the Ludford and Haarder reports : this is a project for a libertarian society , based on rights without obligations , on freedom without responsibilities .
Freedom is not something that can be decreed .
Man cannot be regarded as an entity independent of those around him and concerned solely with his immediate well-being .
The human being not only needs to be given the means to live , but also , and above all , he needs the reasons to live .
An additional charter , European or not , will certainly not provide them .
- ( NL ) We have consented to the Haarder report but would like to make the following observations regarding paragraphs 19 and 20 of the draft report .
Paragraph 19 urges Belgium to sign the Convention for national minorities .
In the Belgian federation , the federal states are equal pursuant to the rules in the constitution .
Not one of them constitutes an actual minority .
Moreover , French-speakers living in the periphery , which boasts the language facilities , can count on protection , which is mostly unavailable to real minorities .
Without a doubt , French-speaking Belgian MEPs will again use this vote to play political games in Belgium .
We do not wish to participate in this and would emphatically disassociate ourselves from this kind of practice .
Moreover , we regret that in paragraph 5 of the Ludford report , the same text was adopted for racism and xenophobia .
We must fight against pornography , against increasingly widespread child abuse , against male and female prostitution and against sex tourism , which inevitably leads to suffering on the part of children .
- ( FR ) I want to explain the reasons underlying my rejection of the annual report on respect for human rights in the European Union .
On the contrary , recent history has shown how the exacerbation of the sense of belonging to a particular community can trigger the resurgence of ancient ethnic disputes and lead to fratricidal conflicts .
Rather than this concept , I prefer the universalist vision of a republican Europe in which each individual as such fully and actively exercises his rights and freedoms .
The Republic of Europe remains to be built : let us hope that the Charter of Fundamental Rights , which is still at the drafting stage , will constitute the first act and the cornerstone of that Europe .
For the same reasons , I abstained on the report on the fight against racism and xenophobia in the European Union .
.
- ( FR ) The annual report on respect for human rights in the European Union is usually taken as an opportunity to display a rather pathetic excess of political correctness .
The champions of the libertarian ideology never miss the chance to list a whole series of demands , each more ludicrous than the next , all wrapped up in proper sentiments .
Perhaps that is what this whole exercise demands .
Alas , the 2000 vintage still goes along with this curious tradition .
As a member of the Committee on Women ' s Rights , I shall confine myself to emphasising the equality between men and women on the one hand , and the importance of the family on the other .
We therefore categorically reject any policy of quotas or positive discrimination , those pet themes of political correctness .
This role has been downgraded for far too long , although it is a key role .
How many of them have been forced to devote more time to their professional life than they would have wished ?
That kind of policy would mean giving the family its due place .
But this report is an extremely dangerous all-out attack on the family .
It calls for equal rights for same-sex couples and traditional couples and families , forgetting the vital role the family plays in social cohesion .
Let us make no mistake : everyone leads the private life they want ; there can be no question of secret policing .
The family , on the contrary , is the community on which society is based and that ensures its stability .
Its utility resides in the fact that it provides the most stable framework possible for creating new generations , for their education , and therefore for the continuity of mankind .
Even now , with the strong backing of certain European resolutions and under pressure from action groups , there are some who are preparing to recognise the right of same-sex couples to adopt children .
Just imagine the psychological future of children with two fathers and no mother , or two mothers and no father !
If it is to fulfil its potential , a child needs a father and a mother , a stable family .
In face of the culture of death , it is our duty to stand up for the culture of life .
We believe in an exalted idea of the dignity of man , whoever he may be , without discrimination , from the moment of conception to his natural death .
That means breaking with the materialistic and individualistic view of man and believing that there is something sacred in each individual , which is the foundation of human dignity .
Man is neither a social security number nor a pawn on a social and economic chessboard to be manipulated at will and discarded when no longer of use .
He is worth much more than that : every man is a sacred history .
That concludes the explanations of vote .
( The sitting was adjourned at 2.11 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m. )
Topical and urgent debate
The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance .
Western Sahara
The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions :
B5-0246 / 2000 by Mrs Gonzlez lvarez and others on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left ;
B5-0253 / 2000 by Mr Snchez Garca and others on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party ;
B5-0262 / 2000 by Mr Carnero Gonzlez and others on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ;
B5-0272 / 2000 by Mrs Schrder and others on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance ;
B5-0278 / 2000 by Mr Salafranca Snchez Neyra and others on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats
on the Western Sahara .
They have released prisoners and accepted the United Nations rulings on eligible voters .
It is the Moroccan Government that has been putting obstacles in the way of resolving the conflict .
If obstacles continue to be put in the way , we may be responsible for a more serious conflict .
Some people are shocked that the Sahrawi people are now saying they are left with no alternative but to take up arms again .
I am not shocked . I can understand it .
It is a solution nobody wants , of course , but it is one we are forcing them into .
Mr President , the European Union - and Parliament within it , of course - must strive to avoid a new conflict in an area which is already troubled enough .
We do not want Western Sahara to become another East Timor , Mr President ,
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , there are circumstances which make Western Sahara a highly topical issue and they are relevant this evening .
Mention must be made of serious incidents which have recently occurred in the occupied territories of Western Sahara , where pro-referendum demonstrations have been suppressed by the Moroccan authorities .
The instability that could become endemic in this part of Africa could affect some of the outermost Community regions , like my region , the Canary Islands .
Our citizens want a peaceful solution to the conflict in Western Sahara and they want the Sahrawi people to hold the referendum under conditions of freedom , transparency and equality .
And finally , one of the objectives of the European Union ' s common foreign and security policy is the maintenance of peace and the strengthening of international security .
That is why we support the motion for a resolution .
Mr President , first we must express our concern for the Sahrawi people , many of whom have experienced long years of exile and suffering .
Solving their problem means respecting the deadlines for holding the referendum that has been postponed again and again .
If there were to be another postponement it would seriously aggravate the problem .
Stability , security and peace in the Maghreb region depend on this referendum taking place .
On the proper conclusion of this process of self-determination depend the stability , peace and indeed the economic integration and development of the whole Maghreb .
I would even say that the transition to full democracy apparently under way in the Kingdom of Morocco also depends on it .
From our point of view , the culmination of the process of self-determination in Western Sahara lies in the application of the peace plan from the United Nations and the Organisation for African Unity .
And the core of that peace plan is precisely the holding of a free and fair referendum on self-determination , in which voters can make their choice without any kind of pressure .
In spite of the efforts of the United Nations , in spite of MINURSO , in spite of the progress that has been made in compiling the electoral roll , the referendum keeps being postponed virtually sine die .
Of course , the delay of the referendum is essentially the responsibility of one of the parties , which is failing to finalise acceptance of the terms under which the said referendum is to take place .
The Kingdom of Morocco and the Polisario Front must restore the direct dialogue which existed at the end of the 1980 ' s and which led to the Houston Agreements .
The European Union should make it a priority to help keep that process going , to help it succeed .
Regrettably , the Union has not acted in the most appropriate way up to now .
Much has been said , but little has actually been done .
That is how we can contribute to achieving a priority objective : peace in the Maghreb .
Self-determination in Western Sahara is essential for that .
Mr President , I should like on behalf of my Group to voice our serious concern at the current situation in the Western Sahara to the European Parliament and , more importantly , the Commission and the Council .
The constant postponement of the referendum on the future of the Western Sahara is unacceptable .
A state of emergency reins in the occupied areas .
At least 56 people have been arrested , including 27 women , for fighting for the right to self-determination .
We call on the government of Morocco to stop repression , lift the state of emergency and permit freedom of expression .
We call on the Council of the EU to vote on joint action which will enable the peace plan to be duly implemented without delay .
The previous involvement of the personal envoy of the UN Secretary General , Mr James Baker , should be used for further mediation work in a bid to implement UN Security Council Resolution No 1292 / 2000 .
We urge the Commission of the EU to ensure immediately that the people in the refugee camps have a secure supply of food .
The supply situation has deteriorated dramatically .
All the stocks of basic foodstuffs have been used up .
According to information from various NGOs , food has been rationed since December and various countries have withdrawn bilateral aid .
The World Food Programme relies on the EU ; as a result , ECHO must now provide 80 % of the food aid originally intended as supplementary aid .
The Council and the Commission must therefore immediately exert pressure on the UN to improve the food situation .
The Commission must set up a financial safety fund for the next three months .
Is it right that , due to staff problems at ECHO and the lack of a new global plan , no food aid is being supplied at present ?
Anything approved today will not be implemented until next August at the earliest , but people cannot be left without aid for such a long period unless they are supposed to starve to death .
We had a similarly dramatic situation a year ago in East Timor .
A referendum was held .
A state of emergency followed .
Only then did international aid react ; no preventative action was taken in order to avoid conflict .
That is why we call on the Commission and the Council to act before it is too late .
Mr President , to begin with , I want to agree with most of what has been said in this regard , especially by my colleague , Mrs Gonzlez lvarez .
I also want to take the opportunity to appeal to the Council .
As I understand it , Portugal does not intend , during its presidency , to take any initiatives on this issue .
I am also particularly glad that Commissioner Nielson is present here today .
ECHO has assumed the major responsibility of constantly providing for the refugees and , whenever this organisation wavers , the voluntary organisations are left powerless .
They have ceased to provide aid and there is no effective coordination .
I really would appeal to Commissioner Nielson to act quickly . I would also appeal to the chairman and members of the Committee on Budgets to deal with this issue quickly .
I cannot think of anything worse than languishing for 25 years among the sand dunes and being taken in by referenda year upon year , only then to starve to death .
Mr President , the Western Sahara issue is , unfortunately , familiar .
It is one of the few legacies of colonialism still surviving in the year 2000 . Morocco is not complying with the United Nations resolutions .
A referendum should have been held years ago , as it was in other countries such as East Timor , Latvia and other places where the right to self-determination has been exercised .
The position of the European Parliament has always been to support , not the independence of the Sahrawi , but the right of the Sahrawi people to freely express their views .
Even today , this right is still being suppressed , under various different pretexts .
Meanwhile , the situation of the Sahrawi people has become serious : even their physical survival is under threat .
Mr President , the peace process in the Western Sahara initiated and led by the Secretary-General of the United Nations looked promising .
The eligible voters were identified thanks to the effective UN mission , MINURSO .
But the Moroccan Government has artificially stepped up the number of appeals concerning voters , a clear sign that it wants to prevent the holding of the referendum on self-determination .
The United Nations must do its utmost to ensure that the referendum is held before the end of 2000 .
The Commission is closely following developments in the implementation of the UN Security Council ' s plan to settle the Western Sahara conflict .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Nielson .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Mozambique
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions :
B5-0244 / 2000 by Mr Miranda and others on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left ;
B5-0251 / 2000 by Mr Queir and Mr Ribeiro i Castro on behalf of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group ;
B5-0254 / 2000 by Mr van den Bos on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party ;
B5-0263 / 2000 by Mrs Carrilho and others on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ;
B5-0276 / 2000 by Mr Rod and others on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance ;
B5-0279 / 2000 by Mrs Maij-Weggen and others on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats
on the floods in Mozambique .
It is equally important that all the countries cancel Mozambique ' s debt in full so as to facilitate its recovery .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , in our mind ' s eye we can still see the tragic pictures from Mozambique , the results of a rare sequence of extremely harsh natural events .
We are also very much aware of how slow the response to this massive disaster has been .
We regard the resolution we will be voting on today as the continuation of an emergency debate which took place at the mini-session in Brussels immediately following these events .
But we alone should not bear the blame for the delay .
We should also be wondering what other countries in other continents are doing .
What about India and Pakistan , which have substantial resources and large communities resident in Mozambique ?
And what are the nearby African countries doing ?
Angola , for example , has powerful armed forces which could have given valuable assistance , or Zimbabwe , just next door , or Nigeria , which has an operational air force .
These questions must also be asked given the imminence of the approaching European Union / Africa Summit , so that we can communicate better on this issue out of common concern for solidarity .
I must also say that we are sensitive to the issue of external debt forgiveness , but we identify more with the text set out in the joint resolution .
As a Christian Democrat , I am sensitive to the appeals of the Catholic Church in this jubilee year for positive handling of the external debt of the third world as a whole .
But we need to make a distinction between the different situations of many African countries .
There are cases where the fortunes accumulated by the leaders of these countries would be enough to pay off their external debt , so these are sensitive issues which need to be carefully considered .
We know this is not the situation in Mozambique , as poor as the country may be .
Mr President , the media have portrayed a distorted image of the disaster which struck Mozambique .
Whilst the world witnessed scenes of desperate people on rooftops and in trees , aid had already got under way off camera .
At least gripping images have a mobilising effect on public opinion and provide a strong base for aid .
But the other side of the coin is that disasters which do not reach the news , to all intents and purposes , do not exist .
This is why it is essential that international aid is not led by the media but only by the people in need .
According to the organisations involved , despite everything , aid has got under way relatively quickly .
This may be true , but this does not apply to the primary rescue operations .
It was not the Commission which was responsible for this , but the governments .
Aircraft , helicopters , food and medicine must be available on demand and at a moment ' s notice .
And I mean literally at a moment ' s notice .
The waiting period should only be determined by the distance involved , not the red tape .
There is a need for much better cooperation between the aid organisations and the armed forces to this end .
It is commendable that Commissioner Nielson travelled to Mozambique so quickly .
I would be interested to hear about his trip and what he thinks of the criticism of the government ?
And what about the criticism concerning coordination ?
The 25 million aid package is sufficient for now , but will need to be increased at a later date .
Mozambique has now entered an extremely difficult phase .
Diseases must be kept at bay , the landmines littering the area must be cleared and re-housing schemes must be established .
For many Mozambicans , the misery is only just starting , now that the media have packed up and moved on .
It is therefore up to us , Parliament , the Council and the Commission , to closely monitor the victims ourselves .
For days there were only seven helicopters trying to bring those people the aid they need , while governments remained silent and the whole world looked on , anguished and appalled .
The European Union must never behave like this again .
In particular the Member States must cancel their share of Mozambique ' s external debt .
Mr President , the recent floods in Mozambique , followed by the hurricane , have thrown the country into complete disarray , at a time when it was just about recovering from the political atrocities of the past .
It is sad that this should happen to one of the world ' s poorest countries as well .
Unfortunately , aid got under way relatively late in the day , at least according to the reports .
Moreover , the world also witnessed how quickly South African helicopters were on the scene and how they saved a few thousand people as a result .
I think it would be fitting to pay tribute to them for these efforts .
Meanwhile , we have heard from Commissioner Nielson that a great deal more was done than was made known .
We appreciate the fact that he travelled to Mozambique in person to assess the situation and to see what the EU could do in the way of aid .
In my opinion , the programme which has now been drawn up in conjunction with the Mozambique government is a sound one , also because it is phased .
It will first address emergency aid , then housing and infrastructure and after that structural aid in order to get the affected areas back on their feet .
The funding which has been set aside for this project is considerable .
I have heard that the international community has put one hundred million on the table in the meantime , and that the EU has made a disproportionate contribution to this .
Moreover , I heard this morning that debts have most definitely been deferred but that it is to be examined how this will be dealt with in future .
It would be good , of course , if these debts were actually suspended , for then the Mozambique government could use the funds for this purpose .
Mr President , I am left with an uncomfortable feeling . The images which have been broadcast obviously do not reflect reality .
Mr Van den Bos has also pointed this out .
The images were inadequate , the disaster is very sad indeed , but the European Union did not stand idly by , as was suggested . We most definitely provided support .
I think it is only fair to clarify this here .
Mr President , rarely has the European Parliament devoted its attention to a natural disaster in circumstances so dramatic and so deserving of our support .
As you are aware , I visited Mozambique on 2 and 3 March , together with the Portuguese State Secretary , Mr Amado .
From the onset of the crisis the Commission has addressed the consequences of the floods in Mozambique in a comprehensive manner .
We have directed our attention to the following areas of concern : immediate relief , resettlement , rehabilitation , macro-economic stability and long-term development .
On the rescue , search and recovery phase : the situation is that the Commission does not have instruments that are geared to this type of intervention .
Member States have the logistical capacity which is needed for these kinds of activities .
For the relief emergency aid and resettlement phase , the Commission has approved two ECHO decisions for a total of EUR 2.7 m for Mozambique , and we are preparing a third decision for EUR 5.5 m .
These cover food aid , water and sanitation , essential relief items as well as the small-scale rehabilitation of essential health infrastructure and preparation for cholera epidemics .
In addition , EUR 1.4 m from the food security budget line have been made available locally to the delegation and the government of Mozambique .
The Commission is planning to fund the delivery of seeds and tools to the peasants to promote replanting as soon as the flood-waters recede .
In addition to the action already funded in Botswana , the Commission is currently carrying out a humanitarian need assessment in Zimbabwe , Zambia and Madagascar .
The Commission is insisting on the need for reinforced coordination with the government around the shared comprehensive reconstruction framework .
A donor core group is meeting every week in Maputo with the government at ministerial level .
The EU presidency and the Commission delegation are members of that group .
The Commission intends to contribute to the preparation of the international donor conference that will be convened probably by the end of April .
The Commission will provide its funding for the rehabilitation requirements in strict coordination with EU Member States and the other donors .
As to macro-economic stability and long-term development : proposals intended to help Mozambique maintain macro-economic stability are currently being appraised by the Commission with the government and the World Bank .
Additional resources , up to EUR 15 m , could be made available .
To maintain the rapid growth achieved by Mozambique in recent years , pre-disaster levels of cooperation will be maintained and stepped up .
This will result in disbursements for this purpose estimated at EUR 150 m this year as compared to EUR 100 m last year .
Within the framework of the Community we will contribute EUR 1 bn for debt relief to ACP countries .
Within this , Mozambique figures among the retroactive cases and will be eligible for debt relief under the enhanced HIPC initiative this year .
Constraints have been identified in this terrible disaster case .
I am at present seeing how we can overcome these constraints to humanitarian assistance in order to provide assistance from the Community even more quickly and efficiently than at present .
This is not easily done .
Finally , I would like to emphasise the figures concerning the international response .
The overall figure of funding for this disaster now stands at about EUR 109 m globally , of which more than EUR 91 m come from the Commission and the EU Member States .
It has already been said in this debate that the European response has , relatively speaking , shown that Europe actually cares .
In money terms we have contributed quite well .
This is not the whole answer to the problem , and we will continue to find better and quicker ways of responding .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Nielson .
We all hope that our aid really will help the people get over the worst of it .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Human rights
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions :
Presidential elections in Peru
B5-0252 / 2000 by Mr Marset Campos and Mr Jov Peres on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left ;
B5-0255 / 2000 by Mr Di Pietro on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party ;
B5-0264 / 2000 by Mr Medina Ortega and Mr Fava on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ;
B5-0270 / 2000 by Mr Lipietz and Mr Knrr Borrs on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance ;
B5-0280 / 2000 by Mr Salafranca Snchez-Neyra on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats
on the electoral process in Peru .
War crimes in Chechnya
B5-0245 / 2000 by Mr Markov and others on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left ;
B5-0256 / 2000 by Mr Haarder and Mr Vyrynen on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party ;
B5-0261 / 2000 by Mr Oostlander and others on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats ;
B5-0265 / 2000 by Mr Sakellariou and Mrs Krehl on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ;
B5-0271 / 2000 by Mrs Schroedter and others on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance
on violations of human rights and humanitarian law in Chechnya .
Freedom of the press in Serbia
B5-0247 / 2000 by Mrs Morgantini and others on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left ;
B5-0257 / 2000 by Mr Haarder on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party ;
B5-0266 / 2000 by Mr Swoboda and Mr Sakellariou on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ;
B5-0273 / 2000 by Mr Lagendijk and others on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance ;
B5-0281 / 2000 by Mr Oostlander and others on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats
on freedom of the press in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia .
Situation in Iraq
B5-0268 / 2000 by Mr Nar and Mr Sakellariou on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ;
B5-0282 / 2000 by Mr Buttiglione on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats
on the situation in Iraq .
Situation in Jammu and Kashmir
B5-0250 / 2000 by Mr Swoboda on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ;
B5-0258 / 2000 by Mrs Lynne on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party ;
B5-0283 / 2000 by Mr Elles and others on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats ;
B5-0285 / 2000 by Mr Messner and Mrs Maes on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance
on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir .
Presidential elections in Peru :
Mr President , the violation of human rights in Peru is another case in the long list of cases occurring in Latin American countries with the connivance of a complacent United States .
The coming elections offer no democratic guarantees , so it is up to the European Union to act as a reference point in ensuring that the citizens of Peru and the democratic parties of that country receive those guarantees .
In view of what is going on in that country , and in Colombia , Mexico , Ecuador and elsewhere , it seems appropriate for the European Union to establish a permanent human rights observatory for Latin America .
It is not just the euro which must compete with the dollar ; our ethical and political human rights principles must replace the old backyard and gunboat policy the United States is pursuing in the area .
Mr President , Peru has had quite a troubled constitutional life with frequent incursions by the military into civilian life .
The European Parliament has already had occasion to condemn this type of action by President Fujimori .
President Fujimori has obviously re-established a degree of calm , if one can call it that , in Peru . But he has continued to keep himself in power by authoritarian means .
In fact I would say that , for many , President Fujimori is no more than the civilian representative of military power exercised indirectly .
Yes , there are still elections in Peru , there are political parties , there are means of communication and there are certain guarantees .
But the guarantees are not complete .
The proof is that three judges from the Constitutional Court were removed for opposing his re-election plans .
That means the guarantees are not complete .
There is no independence of the judiciary or of the legislature .
Secondly , Peru recently withdrew from the jurisdiction of the Inter-American Court for Human Rights , and I think that is a very bad sign for a country .
I think we should ask the Government of Peru to review that decision .
And thirdly , there is still military action going on inside Peru at this moment , frequently creating difficulties for democracy .
In this respect , the reference just now to a permanent human rights observatory for Latin America seems to me entirely appropriate .
Mr President , our primary duty in the struggle to protect the civilian population , refugees and prisoners of war in Chechnya is to do everything to finally bring the war in Chechnya to an end .
This should also be uppermost in the mind of the parliamentary delegation due to travel to the war zone over the coming weeks .
I should also like to warn against judging just one side and apportioning blame solely to the Russian side .
It is clear , including from the report by the Council of Europe delegation , that human rights have been violated and war crimes committed by all the warring factions .
They must be investigated and the guilty must be called consistently to account .
But we should also give the competent Russian authorities the chance to do this themselves .
Mr President , we had a welcome visit yesterday to this Parliament from a delegation from the CIS Parliamentary Assembly .
This gave us a unique opportunity to discuss Russia ' s war with Chechnya face-to-face with other Parliamentarians .
We responded .
Russia is a member of the Council of Europe , and even her need in terms of security to protect her citizens internally from outside assault could not absolve her from her responsibilities under international conventions .
I put the point that the containment by Russia of arms flows from Russia would be a very welcome step forward in terms of shared efforts to combat terrorism .
I suggest no sanctions , no economic sanctions against Russia should be considered at this time .
We have a duty , now that the war is almost over , to have access to victims and to give aid for rehabilitation .
Mr President , I must contradict Mr Markov quite categorically .
It is not apportioning blame to one side to talk of the genocide committed by Russia against the Chechen people , as Lord Judd does in the report by the Parliamentary Assembly delegation of the Council of Europe .
Of course , both sides are guilty of infringements , but Lord Judd ' s diagnosis is pretty unequivocal : genocide .
That is reason enough not to ask Russia to investigate infringements and war crimes .
It would be highly unusual to ask the murderer to investigate himself and we need international bodies to do this .
What we need is the international criminal court and we must bring those responsible to justice .
That is why I warn against a pseudo balanced approach .
So we need to ensure that a negotiated solution is reached with the elected representatives of the Chechen people .
We have not yet reached that point , but we did hear how Russian society is currently becoming more radical from an expert this morning .
We interceded for the release of the Russian journalist Mr Babitsky .
He was due to visit the European Parliament today and give us an eye witness account of the situation in Chechnya , but he was not allowed to leave Russia .
It is a scandal and we cannot accept it .
Freedom of the press for Russia is also a service to the Russian people .
Mr President , it would seem that a war that was started to end terrorism is turning into a situation where a new terrorism is just starting .
It seems to be becoming a permanent phenomenon in the region .
We have condemned the Russian action over the recent months in five separate resolutions .
There has been a certain amount of one-sided thinking in them here and there , which has not made them any more effective .
For example , the idea to use the TACIS programme as a sanction will only lead to ordinary people suffering and has not deterred the Russian government in their policy .
The extension of the war and terrorism is a major threat to us all .
For that reason , we need a Caucasus peace conference , because these problems are not confined to Chechnya .
Secondly , the human rights situation is intolerable , and we therefore need a proper investigation into violations of human rights by all parties .
In addition , speedy and unhindered access to the area on the part of relief organisations must be guaranteed once and for all .
Thirdly , the war must be stopped and talks begun .
And fourthly , Russia ' s active participation in the work against international terrorism and the illegal arms trade is essential .
Finally , the principal rule with respect to refugees is that they should be helped near to where they live and helped to return to their homes .
In this we recognise the short-sightedness of our own policies .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , we know that Russia ' s international standing has been seriously damaged by the Chechen war .
A full investigation of human rights violations involving international observers is also in Russia ' s political interests .
Except that the Russian government does not appear to be totally convinced of the fact .
How else are we to interpret the fact that the UN envoy Mary Robinson was not granted access to Grozny and the filtration camps .
The agreement which has now been brokered with Mr Kalamanov by the human rights envoy of the Council of Europe , Gil Robles , is a step in the right direction .
But it will only continue to be credible if the two Council of Europe envoys really can work independently and move freely and independently around the country .
We reject and shall not accept any unilateral interpretation of the agreement by the Russian government .
We too are required to put a halt to the expulsion of refugees in our countries , as the German government has done .
We too are required to grant Chechens political asylum in our countries .
It would make a great deal of sense if the proposals by the German government were adopted by all the Member States .
This is a despicable war , whose prime victims are the people of Chechnya , but also the young Russian soldiers .
We are also appalled , however , at the attitude of the western powers , in particular the European ones .
The British Prime Minister ' s recent visit to Moscow , the way he toadied to the butcher-in-chief Putin , reflect the general attitude of the western powers .
What public opinion sees is a few declarations condemning certain aspects of the war in Chechnya ; what we are actually seeing is political and financial support for the Kremlin .
Any western loans that have not been hijacked by the Yeltsin clan can thus be spent on pursuing the war against Chechnya .
Many of the parties represented here in Parliament form part of governments that are pursuing this policy of conciliation and support .
Under those circumstances , the vote in Parliament can only serve as a fig-leaf for the hypocrisy of the European big powers and their profound complicity with the crimes the Russian leaders have committed in Chechnya .
Freedom of the press in Serbia :
The people of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are still living in terrible conditions , battered by their own government ' s policy of homicide and suicide , NATO shelling and the embargoes of the international community .
The Serbian authorities are suppressing newspapers , independent radio stations and any radio stations which acknowledge opposition groups or parties .
Mr President , I believe that we are all of one mind today as to how this topic should be handled and the way the media are being treated in Serbia .
The situation in Yugoslavia is deteriorating by the day .
In fact , it seems as if Mr Milosevic and his friends are playing a three-way game by means of which they are trying to deregulate anything which can possibly be deregulated .
Tension surrounding Montenegro is mounting .
At Kosovo ' s border , the situation is very unsettled and the regime in Belgrade is creating a climate in which large-scale accidents are likely .
The last few weeks have been marked by a series of repressive measures against the independent media .
This ranged from high fines to direct intimidation .
In addition , there is talk of a kind of internal isolation .
It is increasingly difficult to enter the country .
I experienced this myself a couple of weeks ago when I tried to attend a few conferences of opposition parties in Serbia .
During that weekend , I was refused an entry visa whilst , two weeks prior to this , many international guests had been able to attend that bizarre conference staged by Milosevic .
It shows that every effort is being made to keep out outside influences .
There is also talk of curtailing communication by telephone , e-mail and keeping tabs on written correspondence .
The government seems keen to remove the opposition from local authorities , where they have been entitled to be since the previous local elections .
The new regime can only win the new local elections , expected in May , if the opposition is , in effect , eliminated .
I find this a dangerous game .
Consequently , we would like to see extensive protests against this media repression , but the EU should also look for ways to provide direct support to Serbia ' s independent media .
The latter is a vital lifeline for the opposition which will be mounting campaigns again this spring and which certainly deserves our support , also where the media is concerned .
Mr President , we have started a new round - the umpteenth - in Milosevic ' s war against the free media .
So much is clear . It seems to be heralding the elections in a perverse kind of way .
The campaign has started and anyone who disagrees with him needs to keep their mouths shut .
It is really unacceptable that elections will soon take place - allegedly formal , democratic elections - in a country where the opposition has first been left without any tool to express itself .
It is a trademark of a totalitarian regime which knows all too well that free , independent media are a nuisance and pose a threat , even to a regime such as that of Milosevic .
The EU ' s support - on which we are probably all agreed - can roughly take two forms .
It would be beneficial to support the media in the neighbouring countries : Croatia and a number of other countries have been mentioned .
I am in favour of this . But it can never replace support provided to the media in Yugoslavia , in Serbia , media which deserve this support .
The EU makes a difference .
The EU has made a difference in the past with its support . It has an obligation to do this in future and should also be given the means to do this .
This is fine within the framework of the new CARA programme , but it is also particularly important that this should happen in two weeks ' time , in conjunction with the Stability Pact .
At the finance conference on the Stability Pact , the European Union can and must commit itself to a number of programmes .
The programmes are ready , the necessity is there ; let us take swift and unambiguous action .
This crook , this old communist crook , is able to remain in power on account of his virtual monopoly of radio and TV and his oppression of any critical independent alternative , among other factors .
Various actions have been undertaken on the part of the European Union , such as providing independent stations with equipment .
But now that one station after the other is being closed down , the EU will need to act again in consultation with the affected parties .
We just heard that Mr Wiersma was denied a visa to visit the opposition in Belgrade .
Now that the Stability Pact will be coming into its own , the help of the neighbouring states will provide a new and sound alternative , especially now that Croatia has experienced a political U-turn .
Alternative reports can be directly provided via stations in Croatia and also in Montenegro .
The Stability Pact can only succeed if Serbia is a democratic constitutional state , not before , and once the criminals have been brought to justice .
As long as Milosevic and his friends can introduce laws which undermine the traditional human rights and human freedoms , as long as this is the case , the outlook for Serbia remains bleak .
It is unfortunate that the internal opposition is so weak and so divided nationally .
The European Union will need to look for powers in Serbia which are not driven by this blinkered nationalism but by values whose observance has also proved to benefit humanity in the European Union .
Mr President , we will gladly support our compromise resolution , especially once the GUE / NGL has pulled out .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , this is not the first time that we have debated the media in Serbia ; we have been discussing this matter for years .
It has become clear over the last two years that the media are being increasingly sidelined .
But we have already said that .
How weak must the Milosevic regime really feel , given how it treats the media ?
I think he is terrified of this and we should help the media so that they can spread the truth about Milosevic and his regime .
Mr President , apparently , the Milosevic regime is not tired of fighting battles , not by a long shot .
Recently , it has taken systematic action against local stations , in particular .
It does not flinch from using violence in these activities .
Neither do the government-run media shrink from launching a full-blown witch hunt against the country ' s independent media . They are then termed rather scornfully ' NATO agents ' and ' traitors of the mother country ' .
It is not by chance that the powerful Serbian police apparatus operates mainly at local level , especially in those towns and cities where the opposition emerged victorious in the 1996 local elections .
With the same elections round the corner and parliamentary elections not too far off either , many in Serbia suspect that the Milosevic regime has already launched its own campaign .
The target , regional radio and television stations , is an obvious one from a Milosevic viewpoint .
Anyone in Serbia ' s small and medium-sized towns who wants to see and hear anything other than what is spouted parrot-fashion by the state media based in Belgrade is heavily reliant on these stations .
By the way : the few independent papers that do exist are hard to come by in the provinces .
This once again underlines the significance of a political counter weight on the Serbian air waves .
As can be expected , Serbia ' s dictator is fighting his battle against the as yet independent media in an underhand manner .
Legalistic arguments over missing licences or outstanding financial state payments mask the true political intentions : to silence his own people as much as possible .
What did receive the official seal of approval for the Serbian population , however , were the politically correct pop music stations of Slobo ' s son Marko and daughter Marija .
Given this sad situation , all those in Serbia who stand up for the freedom of the press deserve our support .
This is not just verbal support , but also tangible support in the form of new transmission equipment being provided to the affected stations , following consultation , as stipulated in paragraph 3 of the present joint resolution .
Milosevic ' s willing servants are then welcome to hold on to the confiscated technical equipment .
Situation in Iraq :
The UN inspectors responsible for monitoring disarmament in Iraq have destroyed or ordered the destruction of the stocks of arms , material and products that could lead to the manufacture of weapons of mass destruction .
They have made sure that Iraq has no long-range missiles that could threaten its neighbours .
That is why our resolution calls for this embargo to be lifted .
Nonetheless , the US Government refuses to definitively lift the embargo , on the pretext that Iraq has not respected its obligations .
Without offering the slightest proof , Washington continues to accuse Iraq of secretly manufacturing biological and chemical weapons .
Washington has refused this proposal too , thus creating a situation which primarily hits the Iraqi people and not their leaders .
According to the UN humanitarian agencies , several hundreds of thousands of Iraqis , including some 500 000 children , have died prematurely because of the embargo , for lack of food , medicines or adequate care .
According to that delegation , the ' oil for food ' programme is a totally inadequate response to the urgent physical needs of the Iraqis .
Mr Eric Rouleau , the former French Ambassador , speaks of a slow-motion genocide .
Our resolution therefore calls for an end to this situation .
However , we also think we need a broader debate on this subject . That is why we are not putting this resolution to the vote today .
On an issue as serious as this one , we prefer , first of all , to call for a Commission and Council declaration .
We are therefore proposing that this debate be deferred to the month of April .
Mr President , the situation before us arises from the Iraqi Government ' s refusal to accept United Nations Resolution 1284 .
The British and American Governments have already given it to be understood that , in this case , hostilities would be resumed .
I feel that we should focus our attention on the possibility of preventing this from happening .
It must be made clear that , at the end of the United Nations mission , the embargo will be lifted - not just suspended , but lifted once and for all .
No one will consider rebuilding Iraq if it is obvious that there will only be four months of stability , and that , after that , the embargo could be reimposed without fresh , credible reasons .
We have attempted to besiege Iraq and to force the Iraqi people to change their government through the embargo and we have not succeeded , even though we have been trying for seven and a half years .
Instead of driving the Iraqis to rebel against the regime in power , the embargo has induced them to hostility towards the West , and in any case , has made them incapable of any kind of action .
Iraqis are not going to die of starvation .
The people need more than medicine : they need us to go out there and rebuild their water supply network , their drainage system and their power stations , restoring an adequate quality of life .
I feel that our resolution should also serve to reassure the State of Israel .
We must therefore make it clear to Israel that a major concern of our policy is the defence of the State of Israel and the right of the State of Israel to exist .
Nevertheless , I realise that it is also important for us to achieve as great a consensus as possible in order to give our governments a firm basis .
But the debate will continue , regardless of what is going to happen in the next part-session in April and which I hope will accord with the political wishes the two of you have expressed here .
So the debate continues and the resolutions are withdrawn .
Mr President , I too am sorry that the vote will not now be taking place .
I am concerned , as are the other speakers , at the plight of the people in Iraq .
One should never forget that the plight of the people in Iraq is being inflicted upon them by their own government .
We want to make that message as loud and clear and unequivocal as we possibly can .
Mr President , the UN sanctions have become a weapon of mass destruction , claiming at least 200 children 's lives every day .
Mary Robinson , the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights , has been speaking out against the sanctions imposed in violation of international law , which prohibits the starving of civilians as a method of warfare .
She says : ' How can you expect me to condemn human rights abuses in Algeria , China and elsewhere when the United Nations themselves are responsible for the situation in Iraq ? '
The UN economic sanctions have denied Iraqis spare parts to restore infrastructure , making water and airborne infectious disease rampant .
Furthermore , the shortage of medical and food aid has made deaths from these treatable diseases epidemic .
The UN estimates that five to six thousand children die unnecessarily each month due to sanctions , even after the UN food for oil programme .
The sanctions constitute relentless lethal force , and innocent Iraqi people caught between opposing forces are paying the price .
It cannot continue .
This is ridiculous : a war is being waged against voiceless children basically because the United States , and indeed the British , are supporting this kind of inhumanity to their fellow man .
Whatever the details , whichever way you look at it , it is a damned dangerous situation which we have to avoid .
Without making a value judgement , I think that both countries , India and Pakistan , must exercise extreme restraint .
The one with regard to increasingly frequent violations of its borders and the other with regard to increasingly frequent proven discrimination against sections of the population , especially Muslim sections of the population in India .
We have to support all available initiatives .
We are not the ones in the hot seat when it comes to taking initiatives .
The United Nations and , without doubt , the United States of America find themselves in this position .
But it is incumbent upon us to state clearly that this conflict needs to be resolved , not exacerbated .
What we must not do is keep quiet .
Mr President , I am pleased that we are debating this resolution today even though I would have preferred the ELDR resolution to have been the one we are debating .
India and Pakistan have carried on this conflict for over fifty years now .
There were UN resolutions that called for a plebiscite for the people of Kashmir all that time ago , and still nothing has happened .
It is even more important now that we find a solution , especially as both India and Pakistan are nuclear powers .
That is why I hope India and Pakistan will come to the negotiating table , together with the people of Kashmir .
I would like to see either the European Union or the USA acting as an honest broker , as a mediator , to try to find an end to this dispute .
But whatever happens , the human rights abuses must stop .
We have daily reports of rapes , murder , torture , and a lot of people say , " Oh , this is an exaggeration " .
But when I was in Azad Kashmir and I went to one of the refugee camps a few years ago I was very moved by the first-hand accounts I heard .
I was even more moved when I went into a tent where the women and children were .
I went up to one woman and although we could not speak each other ' s languages we stood there and hugged each other .
That woman was sobbing her heart out .
I could almost touch the pain , really feel the pain of that woman .
She was not acting it , she was not pretending it - nobody goes to a refugee camp for fun .
They were there because they had been tortured , they had been mistreated and they were escaping .
That was not an isolated incident , and it is still happening today .
We must find a solution .
They must come to the negotiating table .
Mr President , I am as delighted as others are that we are having this debate today for the first time in our elected parliament in this session .
It is long overdue , for the reasons which our previous speakers have already underlined .
Relations between India and Pakistan are indeed deteriorating , with Kashmir being a particular bone of contention .
Tensions are also being aggravated by the fact that these two countries are nuclear powers .
Indeed , in the Herald Tribune of Tuesday , March 14 , 2000 , the headline reads : " Nuclear war between India and Pakistan is a real possibility " .
It is increasingly an international problem and one where mediation will , in my view , become essential .
So what can we do to bring long-term stability to this volatile region ?
We discussed this issue when we met with members of the US Congress in our normal framework of delegations earlier this year .
As these two approaches are made , this two-pronged approach by the European Union and the United States is , in my view , the best way to start the process for long-term peace and stability in this region .
I am then often ashamed at how little influence we can exert as a huge economic power in the political field .
This is why I welcome the debate on this conflict today .
However , we should not just treat it as a conflict between Pakistan and India regarding the respective spheres of influence that the two countries want to see established .
Very often , the people who actually live there are not taken into account .
Although the UN resolutions of 1948 and 1949 stipulated that the fate of Kashmir and Jammu should be decided by a referendum under international supervision , this never actually happened .
This appears to have awakened world opinion again .
I am convinced that international mediation is desirable and necessary .
I am therefore happy to concur with what Kofi Annan said concerning this matter , but I do hope that this will not prejudice the right to self-determination on the part of the peoples involved .
Mr President .
Over a year ago , in February 1999 , there was hope for new relations between India and Pakistan .
In the Lahore declaration , both presidents confirmed their determination to comply with the 1972 Simla agreement .
Unfortunately , the Lahore process came to a standstill during the clash over Kargil between May and July 1999 .
The latest development in Kashmir is worrying .
We condemn the continuing human rights violations , the religious fanaticism , the sabotage and the terrorism .
The cause lies in activities by rebels who are operating across the border , across the line of control from the Pakistani side and systematically attacking unarmed civilians .
India has repeatedly accused the government and Islamabad of backing the guerrillas with technical and military know-how .
Border crossings have to be prevented along a 700 km stretch of country which is hard to monitor .
The political and military situation needs to be further stabilised in order to create a climate for bilateral talks .
The Indian government has already declared that it is prepared to resume negotiations , provided that the demarcation line is strictly adhered to and fundamentalist tendencies are checked .
We must work on achieving a rapprochement between the two neighbouring states , the Islamic state of Pakistan and the multinational state of India .
It is up to Commissioner Patten and the high representative of the Council , Mr Solana , to ensure that the European Union has a chance to distinguish itself as a successful international mediator in conflict situations .
First , on the presidential elections in Peru , the Peruvian authorities invited both the EU presidency and the Commission to send observers to the elections .
A consultation took place between the Commission and the Member States , concluding that the situation does not justify the organisation and deployment of a full EU observation mission .
Some Member States announced , however , that they would be sending observers on a bilateral basis including , in some cases , representatives of their national parliaments .
They are also supporting the mission of observers of the Organisation of American States , led by the former Minister for Foreign Affairs of Guatemala , Mr Eduardo Stein .
On the human rights situation in Chechnya I have the following comments .
The Commission is also deeply concerned about increasing evidence of human rights abuses in Chechnya .
It was exactly these issues I discussed very directly with the Russian Government during my visit to the region at the beginning of February .
We are still waiting for an answer from the Russian authorities on these concrete proposals .
On the media situation in Serbia , the mounting series of actions taken against Studio B by the authorities last week are wholly unacceptable and we deplore them .
The increasing pressure put on the independent media shows just how important those media are .
The European Commission has made great efforts to support the independent media in Serbia .
In December 1999 we approved a EUR 3.3 million programme of support .
Satellite equipment is being distributed across the region to Croatia , Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia .
This will only prolong the crisis in Iraq .
Oil for food remains the best short-term option to alleviate the suffering of the Iraqi population .
In the longer term , the economic and social situation in Iraq can only be improved by increased economic activities stimulated by lifting sanctions .
Ways should be pursued to engage the Iraqi government in a dialogue on the implementation of UN Security Council resolutions which might lead to a gradual easing of sanctions .
But let us be clear - the key to the lifting of sanctions lies with the Iraqis .
The Commission has , since the Gulf War in 1991 , been the major donor of humanitarian aid to Iraq , to the tune of over EUR 242 million .
Another EUR 8.6 million is allocated from the 2000 ECHO budget .
The Commission is , however , concerned about the restrictions imposed by the Iraqi Government on NGO operations , which may jeopardise the implementation of ECHO financed humanitarian aid programmes in Iraq .
Finally , Mr President , on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir , the Commission welcomes the European Parliament 's deep concern regarding the Kashmir conflict reflected in the different draft resolutions .
The international community 's concern for the region is a legitimate one , particularly as both sides possess nuclear weapons and as dialogue between them has , at this stage , effectively broken down .
Precisely because of this impasse and the high risks involved , third parties must adopt a balanced approach .
Third parties may urge both sides to de-escalate military confrontation in a structured way and resume comprehensive dialogue with a view to relaunching the Lahore peace process .
Pakistan should be asked to put a stop to infiltration of paramilitary personnel crossing over from their side of the line of control .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Nielson .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m. , except on the situation in Iraq , as agreed .
Combatting organised crime
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions :
B5-0259 / 2000 by Mr Procacci , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the fight against organised crime in South-East Europe ;
B5-0267 / 2000 by Mr Lavarra and others , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the fight against organised crime ;
B5-0274 / 2000 by Mrs Frassoni and others , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the urgent situation created by crime linked to illegal trafficking in Apulia ( Italy ) ;
B5-0277 / 2000 by Mr Le Pen and others , on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members , on organised crime ;
B5-0284 / 2000 by Mr Fitto and others , on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on organised crime .
Italians are familiar with the difficulties of dealing with organised crime .
The means and resources donated by the European Community would not be used for healthy growth , but would serve to further strengthen the canker of underground organisations .
I think that we in this European Parliament owe it to the relatives of the victims to acknowledge that respect for the dead is not an Italian but a European matter .
That is the first point which I wished to make here .
The second is a political challenge which , in my view , we are not taking seriously enough .
However , the police counter-strategies needed still mainly come within the jurisdiction of the nation states .
The instruments to fight organised crime are organised at intergovernmental level .
Where I live , in the district of Aachen , there is a town called Herzogenrath .
This is a practical example of the difficulties inherent in the fight against organised crime and clearly illustrates the need for a cross-border , or rather a pan-European approach .
Mr President , for a long time , cigarette smuggling has had a rather romantic appeal in Italy , which it acquired particularly after the war thanks to the influence of neorealist films .
However , the events taking place in Puglia and the South of Italy are not at all romantic . Quite the opposite .
The European Union is making a substantial contribution to the reconstruction of the former Yugoslavia .
The actions of the local authorities and our initiatives to assist them are absolutely vital elements in the fight against organised crime , and are therefore also crucial for the safety of Europeans .
We regret that the joint resolution did not take up our suggestion to make the new reconstruction programmes conditional upon an undertaking by the governments of the former Yugoslavia to cooperate actively in the fight against organised crime .
Europe is attempting to enlarge its borders and create an area of freedom , security and justice .
The Adriatic is a border and so is the Ionian Sea .
We have already paid too high a price in deaths - too many civilians gave their lives in the raids in Puglia - and we have lost too many men from the forces of law and order .
In consideration also of the existence of the Stability Pact , we need to take practical steps to show that the enlargement of Europe will also mean greater security for our people .
Mr President , when it comes to this issue , I am in two minds .
We need a pan-European system of internal security , and here the Balkans are naturally a special cause for concern because we have assumed responsibility in Kosovo and the neighbouring regions .
On the other hand , however , we must take care not to classify certain peoples in a particular manner .
We are therefore against point 4 of the joint resolution which names Montenegro .
Of course , Montenegro also has internal security problems , as we do in the EU for that matter .
But Montenegro presently faces a huge threat ; as you will have heard , and as officially confirmed by NATO yesterday , Milosevic has again started military operations against Montenegro .
We must be careful not to give him an excuse .
Therefore , solidarity in the fight against organised crime , yes , but please , no specific passage on Montenegro ; just support for Montenegro in its struggle for greater freedom .
The links between criminal groups in different countries and the increasingly wide geographical spread of crime call for a supranational response .
After all , security is one of Europe ' s objectives in the Treaty of Amsterdam and was on the agenda of the European Council held in Tampere in the autumn of 1999 .
We hope that substantial decisions similar to those proposed in Tampere will be taken regarding the creation of common investigation groups , a European police academy and a genuine European judiciary such as EUROJUS .
This is the path we must take , taking due account of the fight against crime taking place in the Balkan States in our relations with these countries .
The Commission has examined with great interest the resolution concerning the threat posed by the development of illicit activities of criminal groups operating in several countries of south-eastern Europe .
Clearly a lot of these criminal activities have serious negative consequences for the Community and its Member States .
Although many actions envisaged aim to encourage cooperation between the fifteen Member States , the plan does not neglect the need also to develop wider forms of international cooperation .
The tangible result has been the conclusion by the Council in 1998 of the Pre-accession Pact on cooperation against crime with the candidate countries .
The Commission considers that it can prove and provide a useful input to the Stability Pact by combining the Member States ' expertise and the Community funds in order to set up well-targeted anti-crime projects and activities .
In this respect , the Commission is also ready to act as a coordinator and in close consultation with the special coordinator of the Stability Pact .
Furthermore , I have to underline that the Commission is preparing a proposal for a new specific financial instrument which will provide a global legal basis for the Community assistance to the whole region .
An official proposal will be presented to the Council by the end of this month and we hope that a new regulation will come into force as soon as possible , hopefully just after the summer break .
These groups work to combat organised crime whose transnational dimension has been demonstrated on several occasions .
They have been established to provide support and operational assistance that focuses its investigations on the sectors and products which are most vulnerable to fraud , which is the case for cigarettes .
The results of the activities of these task groups recorded over the last few years are particularly significant .
In 1996 , for instance , cigarette smuggling , mainly in the transit regime , totalled ECU 800 m .
The overall financial impact of fraud detected in this area in 1997 was an estimated ECU 1.6 bn covering Community own resources and national revenue .
The number of inquiries against cigarette smuggling even increased in 1998 , although the financial impact was lower than in the previous years .
This can be explained by the continuation of large international inquiries and the success in the fight against cigarette smuggling from Andorra and against the black market in Spain .
All in all we take these threats to the Community very seriously and will continue working hard to fight them .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Nielson .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
CITES
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions :
B5-0249 / 2000 by Mr Sjstedt and others , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora ( CITES ) ;
B5-0269 / 2000 by Mrs Roth-Behrendt , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora ( CITES ) ;
Mr President , first of all , I would like to apologise on behalf of Mrs Maij-Weggen , who submitted this resolution .
She has had to leave earlier on account of a death and funeral in the family .
It is not the first time in this House that the CITES Convention is being mentioned .
Over the years , this Convention , with its 148 signatories , has saved many plants and animals threatened with extinction .
Once again , it seems unlikely that the correct decisions will be taken at the CITES meeting in Nairobi and once again , we will be stepping in to prevent the wrong decisions from being taken .
In this intervention , I would like to focus on three risks .
We urge the Commission and Member States not to go along with this .
The list of illegally traced ivory is already so extensive that a legal hunt would only exacerbate the problem .
A second risk which I would like to point out is Norway ' s and Japan ' s proposal to re-legalise the hunt for the minke whale in the North Atlantic and the Southern Pacific .
Again we are opposed to this , if only because these lovely animals are already being hunted down by both countries .
Re-legalisation would only further reward bad behaviour .
In addition , this minke whale is an endangered species and it would be preferable to keep to the arrangement to protect all whales .
Finally , I would like to give a third example .
Cuba has requested to move the hawksbill turtle back to appendix II . This is the result of a typically isolated view of an animal generally threatened with extinction .
This would be a tremendous incentive to continuing the illegal hunt .
In a nutshell , these are three examples from a series of proposals in Nairobi which cause us great concern .
We urge the Commission and Member States not to support this type of proposal but to keep CITES as it is .
Let us not start this century on a bad note but on a good note and work together to ensure that no more plants and animals are threatened with extinction .
Mr President , as the previous speaker said , this resolution is addressed to the parties to the CITES Convention meeting in Nairobi in April .
I want to refer briefly to three essential measures which ought to be taken in Nairobi in the days ahead .
The first is providing information and raising awareness amongst the public , the buyers and sellers .
The second is sanction mechanisms against those who have not yet adopted legal measures to stop poachers , in particular , benefiting from impunity .
And the third is cooperation with developing countries , because sometimes trafficking and trading in threatened species is the only way to survive in their rural areas .
Mr President , protecting animal and plant species which are threatened with extinction is about more than just preserving the natural riches .
It is about a battle between civilisation and barbarism .
Maintaining bio-diversity is also about more than preventing the extinction of certain animal species , however important these may be , such as elephants and whales .
Since the individual species are unable to stand up for themselves , we need to do this for them , at home or elsewhere .
This means , for example , that the international transport of tropical animals must be regulated .
Even today , there are scandalous cases of abuse , both in legal and illegal transportation .
Over-exploitation and misuse cannot be explained by poverty alone .
They often involve ruthless traders who only have their own self-interests at heart .
Although we may not be aware of it , huge numbers of animals are also the victims of natural disasters and especially wars in Africa .
Animals are , by definition , not just there for our amusement .
It is only right that a civilised society should give their beastly fate more attention .
Mr President , at the previous CITES conference , the European Parliament almost unanimously adopted a resolution to accord the African elephant the highest status of protection .
The African elephant is still a threatened animal species , according to the IUCN .
Fourteen EU Ministers faint-heartedly abstained from the vote and , as a result , legalised the shooting of elephants in Africa .
The Dutch Minister was the only one to vote for the conservation of the elephant .
Between 10 and 20 April next , the fate of this elephant will once again feature on the agenda of the world community .
Kenya , the hosting nation , and India have tabled the proposal to grant the African elephant full protection once again .
Shooting elephants in order to sell their tusks to Japan and then giving the proceeds away - at least on paper - to protect wild animals is a perverse kind of logic .
Besides which , it does not work .
South Africa , Botswana , Namibia and Zambia want to shoot even more elephants now .
This blood money also ends up in the wrong hands .
I would call on the 15 Environment Ministers , including the 6 Green Ministers , to show courage and to grant the African elephant full protection once again on 30 March during the Environmental Council .
Full protection is also needed for the hawksbill turtle which is only to be found in Cuba .
In the space of three generations , more than 80 % of the population has disappeared .
Regarding the African elephant and the hawksbill turtle , the European Commission gives priority to the blood trade with Japan .
This is scandalous .
Mr President , the European Community is not a party to CITES .
The present text of the Convention permits only individual countries to join .
The Gaborone amendment to the CITES text from 1983 would allow us to become a party to the Convention .
However , this amendment has not yet entered into force due to the insufficient number of CITES parties who have ratified it .
The Commission continues its diplomatic efforts to ensure that a sufficient number of ratifications are made in order to allow the Community to play a more proactive role in this important Convention .
Notwithstanding the fact that we are not yet a party , the Community possesses legislation to implement CITES .
This legislation is amongst the most thorough and comprehensive of its kind in the world .
The Commission 's policy is based on both conservation and sustainable use , principles recognising that peoples and states are the best protectors of their own wild fauna and flora .
Concerning the specific matters in Parliament 's resolutions , we agree on the need to step up enforcement measures in the field of wildlife trade in India .
We will approach the Indian authorities along the lines suggested , and continue to do all we can to support and further the objectives of CITES .
Concerning the proposals for the forthcoming Conference of the CITES parties , the Commission has yet to adopt a formal proposal .
However , our general orientation on the major issues is as follows :
On whales , the Community 's position should be unambiguous .
No return to commercial whaling until the International Whaling Commission deems that the appropriate management controls are in place .
We should therefore oppose the Japanese and Norwegian proposals to restart the trade .
On African elephants , we favour the maintenance of the status quo until a clear picture emerges of the impact of the international trade that was permitted in 1997 .
We should not support any of the proposals that have been made .
Concerning the Cuban sea-turtle proposals , the Community should oppose the resumption of the regular annual trade in shells .
We need , however , to hold a more open position on the disposal of the Cuban shell stockpiles until we know the position of the neighbouring countries to Cuba .
Finally , on sharks , there is cause for concern , and the proposal on basking sharks should , in particular , be supported .
Here , however , CITES will need to work closely with regional fisheries bodies and the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation .
Thank you very much , Commissioner Nielson .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President , I see from my order paper that the vote on the situation in Iraq has been withdrawn .
Can I be told at whose request , and what reasons were given for withdrawing that ?
It was not the vote which was withdrawn ; on the contrary , the movers of the motions themselves withdrew both their motions .
If there is no motion to vote on , then obviously no vote can then be held .
Perhaps Mr Swoboda can briefly explain what is behind this .
Mr President , you are quite right , we have withdrawn the motions for resolutions .
If I may briefly explain , we withdrew them because we shall be holding a longer , more detailed debate on this subject during the next Strasbourg session .
I think that it makes more sense , given the worsening situation in Iraq , to hold a debate once the Council and Commission have made statements detailing their position rather than under the urgency procedure .
That was our reason for withdrawing them .
Mr President , may I confirm that what Mr Swoboda just said applies equally to the EPP-ED Group .
We have withdrawn our motion for a resolution for the same reasons , i.e. the debate scheduled for April .
Thank you , Mrs Grossette , I think the reasons are now clear .
Mr Buttiglione wishes to raise a point of order .
Thank you , Mr Buttiglione .
We shall now proceed to the vote .
Vote ( continuation )
Mr President , although it would have been better if we had voted at lunchtime , I am happy to go ahead now .
Mr President , I support the proposal by my friend , the very honourable member , Baroness Ludford , with pleasure .
Let us proceed with the vote .
Mr President , I should just like to ask why the sudden change of mind by the members .
Mr Posselt , I suggest that you ask them yourselves later .
I do not want a public debate in plenary on the matter .
Before the vote on Amendment 53
Mr President , on behalf of the GUE / NGL Group , I wish to withdraw Amendments 53 and 55 relating to paragraph 17 of the report .
It does indeed seem that the wording of these two amendments could give rise to conflicting interpretations , especially in certain language versions .
I am against ethnic classifications , because that would stigmatise immigrants .
Amendments 53 and 55 called for the term " ethnic " to be deleted .
Those are the reasons why I decided to withdraw these two amendments .
Thank you .
We have noted your remarks .
The mover of the motion had the foresight to withdraw the motion before the vote .
We are not therefore voting on it .
( Parliament approved the motion for a resolution )
I would ask for this to be considered .
If you have now changed your mind , you must submit a motion to amend the agenda again and then I shall gladly proceed otherwise .
Mr President , I freely admit that I have room for improvement .
Mr Swoboda , that applies to both of us !
Mr President , on a point of order , I am very pleased that this report has gone through .
We spent a very long time voting on this .
Most of these amendments were put down either by members of the technical group of racists or by the EPP on positions that they lost in committee .
We should not be spending so long voting on amendments put down when they lost their position earlier on .
We could have done it much more quickly because the position has been quite clear .
You have touched on a fundamental problem which has to do with the way in which this has been entered on the agenda .
If , according to the agenda , these proposed amendments have been submitted in time , then the President will call them and deal with them as usual .
Mr Speroni wishes to raise a point of order .
Mr President , I do not know whether there has been an interpreting error , but Mr Evans called us the " technical group of racists " , whereas we are the Technical Group of Independent Members .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , this is the first explanation of vote which I have given in many years and my first explanation of vote as chairman of the EPP-ED Group .
Unfortunately , our Group was unable , for a number of fundamental reasons , to vote in favour of the Ludford report on countering racism and xenophobia in the European Union .
Most of our group therefore abstained or voted against .
Our reasons were as follows .
Thirdly : the Ludford report addresses matters which lie outside the time framework of the report and have nothing whatsoever to do with the report .
I consider that unacceptable .
My Group has therefore been compelled either to abstain or to vote against the report .
( Applause )
Mr President , I voted against this report because I judge a good bottle of wine by its contents , not its label .
This report may well have an anti-racism label , but it contains an indigestible brew of ideologically confused nonsense and does not merit the title of an anti-racism report .
Although we do not agree with many of the recitals in the report on countering racism and xenophobia , we voted for that report because it takes a stance against discrimination and in favour of the rights of minorities .
Yet we certainly do not go along with the way Parliament is congratulating itself .
First of all , because most of the proposals to promote the rights of minorities and immigrants remain vague and are not binding .
But , on the other hand , by contrast with the Haarder report which we voted for this morning , this report is long on radical demagoguery and short on legal rigour .
Now this Parliament , as co-legislator , should know that any statement it makes has either legal value or , as in this case , quasi-legal value , and that is why greater care must be taken .
That obviously violates the Treaty right away .
It is badly drafted .
And I could give further examples of this kind of thing to justify our abstention .
Mr President , I should like to give a very brief explanation on behalf of the Austrian delegation of Socialists .
We abstained on point 10 .
We would have preferred a statement in keeping with the European Parliament ' s resolution on Austria .
But as this point was accepted nonetheless , we voted in favour of the report on account of its fundamentally positive thrust .
I do not think this kind of resolution does any credit to our Parliament .
- My Group and I are pleased to have voted for and supported the Ludford report which is concerning the important subject of the fight against racism and xenophobia .
The fight against the racists and xenophobes in our society , those who seek to divide Europe , is one that must and will be won .
.
( SV ) We conservatives support most of the measures against racism and xenophobia in the Ludford report .
We are , nonetheless , abstaining from voting in the final vote because we believe that labour market legislation is an area to which the subsidiarity principle ought to be applied , as mentioned in paragraph 17 .
I think the approach taken in these reports is a kind of violation of our terms of reference .
The differences are being ironed out at every level , for the Haarder report also supports equal rights for same-sex couples and the traditional family .
The two reports also join forces in calling for the right of immigrants to vote and stand for election in local and European elections .
I think that second category is highly significant .
And , of course , they insist that , in future , this document must be legally binding on the Member States .
Here as ever we see that the European level is the point of least resistance in face of pressure groups , of extraneous minorities , even of foreign interests .
- ( DA ) We are in favour of the humanitarian angle from which the report has been drawn up .
We are in favour of the report focusing upon the breeding grounds for racism and xenophobia in Europe .
We think it is important to combat racism and xenophobia by guaranteeing citizens the rights to education , access to the labour market etc .
It is also positive that the report should recommend that citizens of third countries should have better opportunities for integration .
For the aforesaid reasons , we have chosen to vote in favour of the report , since we basically think it is extremely important to combat racism and xenophobia .
We would emphasise , however , that we cannot support the means of combating racism and xenophobia that the report recommends .
We believe that measures such as drawing up a common asylum policy and establishing EURODAC - which would cause asylum seekers to be viewed with suspicion - would not further the fight against racism and xenophobia .
- ( FR ) I congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of her work on the European Commission ' s report on the implementation of the European Year Against Racism ( 1997 ) .
Recent events in Austria demonstrate that it is , alas , still necessary today to combat racism , antisemitism and xenophobia .
As the report points out , we really must express " horror at the entry into Government in Austria of Jrg Haider ' s Freedom Party " .
Let me take this opportunity to repeat that we must keep up the pressure on the Austrian Government and continue to encourage public debate .
For there is indeed a strong risk that people will simply become used to the situation .
I repeat : the great risk is that it will become part of everyday life .
This open breach of the founding principle of our European Union , namely unconditional respect for fundamental rights , must not create a precedent .
Throughout Europe , extreme right-wing parties are hoping to exploit the entry into power of this coalition with its fascist connotations .
So it is our duty as European democrats to remain vigilant , to tempt this government into a foolish mistake that will lead to its fall .
I personally am prepared to take this fight to the bitter end .
Like the rapporteur , I believe that the ethnic , religious , cultural and linguistic diversity of Europe is a source of vitality and that it is essential for Europe ' s future economic prosperity and social success .
That is why the public authorities of the Member States and the EU institutions must actively promote racial equality and take concrete action to achieve greater ethnic diversity among their staff .
I also agree that leading the fight against racism and xenophobia and the promotion of equal opportunities should be an explicit responsibility allocated to one European Commissioner .
One other proposal deserves our full attention .
Coming back to Austria , one reason why it has come to this extreme situation is perhaps that this country does not have a sufficiently objective memory of the past .
in writing .
It is especially worth highlighting the need to give the citizens of third countries resident in the European Union political rights , by granting them the right to vote in local and European elections .
For those reasons , our vote is in favour of the report .
- As a former Minister in the UK for race relations I am very much aware of the need to look constantly for ways of improving relations between all groups and interests in the population .
This requires a careful mixture , firstly of education , and only when absolutely necessary , of legislation .
This report totally fails to provide a balanced approach .
It is gesture politics at their worst with the clear ideology of the author taking precedence over good sense .
It is damaging through its stridency .
It gives no credit for the great achievements in race relations in EU states .
It offers only a defeatist agenda , not one of a positive nature .
It insults those who are trying to improve a situation and therefore it is offensive to many .
In short , it is an abuse of the opportunities offered by our Parliament to debate and determine issues like this which are vital and important and deserve better than this approach .
Those of us who really care know the great difficulties of this subject .
This report would undermine rather than improve race relations .
That cannot be a desirable outcome .
This pathological , fanatical and obsessive ' anti-racist ' mania is being used merely as a psychological lever in the process of colonising Europe and forcing its people into submission .
The moral inquisition , propaganda and constant psychological conditioning to which we are being subjected are worthy of the most despicable methods applied in the communist regimes ' ' re-education ' camps .
But this report will at least have the merit , thanks to the Baroness and her cronies , of letting us find out who the new collaborators are .
Stand up and be counted !
- ( FR ) Europe is facing real difficulties today .
Like it or not , it is not the path of glory it aspired to be for the citizens of the Member States .
It reflects what it is , namely a remote and restrictive machine whose sole purpose seems to be to enact finicky legislative rules obviously aimed at centralisation and standardisation .
That could have allowed us to inject a little ' soul ' into a system sadly in need of it .
But that was not to be .
The rapporteur , the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs and the plenary have served us up documents that smell of death .
These pseudo-defenders of the rights of man have quite simply forgotten that man is not a concept , a point in a political programme .
The human being has a dignity , a mission that are far superior , if not contrary , to what is being put before us today .
Respect for the human being means recognising that his legitimate rights correspond to legitimate obligations , that he must exercise his freedom responsibly , that his natural dignity presupposes moral points of reference .
I would not so much say that the European Parliament has missed an opportunity as that it has once again been true to itself , libertarian and , in the final analysis , liberticidal .
- ( FR ) Today , the European Parliament is presenting us with the new man in a new world .
Oh how wonderful it must be to live in China , in Cuba or in North Korea !
This is not serious .
Communities , whether national or European , need points of reference that are not exclusive but that guarantee enduring relations .
Our nations are often pluri-secular , they have always attracted populations and ethnic groups different from their own , who have added their value to that of their hosts .
This happened without problem , because our nations presented these newcomers with identified systems within which they could easily find their bearings and their place .
Today , the Ludford report puts us at a remove from that Europe .
Report ( A5-0055 / 2000 ) by Mr Belder
Mr President , the only reason we voted for this report is to reaffirm that we are opposed on principle to any form of racism , xenophobia and oppression of minorities , within or outside the European Union .
However , that vote does not mean we agree with all the recitals and all the proposals in it .
- ( FR ) The European Commission presented this communication on countering racism in the candidate countries in response to the request by the Vienna European Council of 11 and 12 December 1998 .
The profound process of transformation that has been under way in Central and Eastern Europe since 1989 has had its impact on the rise of racism , xenophobia and antisemitism .
The high unemployment rate ( formerly an unknown social phenomenon , but now officially recognised ) , which resulted from the economic reforms , is making people feel more insecure .
All this creates fertile ground for the rise in forms of racism .
There is a risk that the changes resulting from the implementation of the Community acquis will further accentuate the social tensions in the candidate countries .
So it is vital to take vigorous action without delay to help these countries to tackle these problems .
The European Observatory of racism and xenophobia which will open its doors in Vienna on 10 April this year must also make a relevant contribution to continuing the fight against racism , xenophobia and antisemitism in the candidate countries .
The report highlights one very acute problem in the candidate countries , the problem of respect for the rights of minorities .
I am thinking particularly of the Roma , who face intolerable discrimination in several Central and Eastern European countries .
I am also thinking , obviously , of the problem of the institutionalised discrimination against the Kurdish people .
Let me take this opportunity to remind you that Mrs Leyla Zana , a Turkish parliamentarian of Kurdish origin , is still being held in Turkish jails after a parody of a trial .
So far , all the pressure exerted by the European Parliament has had no effect on the Turkish authorities ' position .
Sadly , Mrs Zana ' s case is no exception !
Turkey needs to make considerable progress in relation to respect for the Kurdish population .
That is the condition for its accession to the European Union and there can be no compromise on that !
ECB foreign reserve assets
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the European Union has equipped itself with a politically independent Central Bank , responsible for safeguarding price stability .
The ECB must , at the very least , be financially independent .
Pursuant to the Treaty , the Bank ' s initial capital is fixed at EUR 5 billion while foreign exchange reserves are fixed at EUR 50 billion .
As the European System of Central Banks is currently composed of only 11 national central banks , the capital released is only EUR 3.9 billion , while currently transferred reserves come to only EUR 39.46 billion .
Of that , 15 % are in gold , while the remaining 85 % consist of US dollars and yen .
It should be noted that interest on its own capital is the European Central Bank ' s only reliable source of income .
In the short term , this income varies with interest rates .
The ECB ' s other source of income is the interest on its official reserves .
However , from that income the ECB has to deduct the interest it pays on its liabilities in euros vis--vis the national central banks .
The foreign exchange reserves that appear on the ECB ' s balance sheet are given in national currencies , while the liabilities vis--vis the national central banks are given in euros .
At present , given the interest rate differentials between the euro on the one hand , and the US dollar and the yen on the other , the net income from interest is positive .
Since the ECB holds currencies to offset liabilities in euros , it would also run a foreign exchange risk if the euro appreciated substantially against the reserve currencies it is holding .
An internal ECB calculation indicates that the foreign exchange value at risk could exceed the ECB ' s current capital .
A 10 % depreciation of the US dollar and the yen against the euro , accompanied by a 10 % fall in the price of gold , would wipe out all the ECB ' s existing capital .
The Treaty provides for a mechanism whereby the ECB can forearm itself against any erosion of its capital .
The European Central Bank can partially or totally retain the monetary income from the Eurosystem .
Nevertheless , a central bank that depended on being bailed out repeatedly would not be very credible .
In fact , the European Central Bank will probably close its 1999 financial year with a deficit of more than EUR 200 million .
So it is imperative to resolve this structural problem as quickly as possible .
On 14 April 1999 , the European Parliament endorsed an ECB recommendation on doubling its capital in the long term .
The recommendation under consideration today seeks to authorise the Governing Council to effect further calls of foreign reserves , raising the ceiling to EUR 100 billion .
So it is simply a question of authorisation in principle to increase reserves as needed , without being pressurised by exceptional events .
In this context it must be noted that the total reserves of the Eurosystem come to more than EUR 350 billion .
As President Duisenberg maintained at his last hearing before the European Parliament , the ECB does not intend to intervene on the foreign exchange markets to try to influence the external value of the euro .
In the event of another international financial crisis , which remains possible given the irrational exuberance of the markets , there could be a need for concerted intervention by the main central banks .
I have not proposed what might be called a political resolution to my colleagues .
Personally , as I said a while ago , I feel that Parliament votes on too many resolutions and that this inflated number of resolutions reduces the value of other , politically essential resolutions .
In this case it is a question of saying yes or no .
A massive yes vote also sends out a political message .
We want the ECB to be able to pursue its main objective of safeguarding price stability in total independence - including material independence .
We want the Central Bank to play its full part on the international scene and to make an active contribution to defining new rules that will enable the international financial system to operate without crises .
We are confident that the Governing Council will make optimum use of the foreign exchange reserves in the Eurosystem in the event of tension on the markets .
It would be warranted , however , for such internal ECB transfers , which will not be included in detail in the Eurosystem ' s weekly consolidated financial statements , to be disclosed a posteriori .
The European Parliament also assumes that the ECB President will explain the decisions taken by his Council when he appears before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and , indeed , during plenary debates .
The Central Bank has everything to gain from this improved transparency with regard to consolidating its credibility .
So its role is not just to satisfy the expectations of the financial markets .
What is the legal basis for today ' s debate ?
According to Article 3 of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks , owning and managing official foreign reserve assets is one of the tasks of the ECB .
This call must be issued in the form of a regulation by the EU Council .
The ECB is currently calling for a further increase of 50 billion euros .
We , the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats and the entire Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , as the rapporteur has already said , welcome this proposal .
The reasons are set out in detail and time is already marching on , but allow me to say that we consider that this increase is needed .
First , because it will help to increase the financial independence of the ECB , and the independence of the European Central Bank is instrumental to the stability and unassailability of the currency .
The return on the capital paid up so far and the official reserves currently represents the ECB ' s only source of income for financing its operations .
We know that it sustained a loss in 1999 .
We must therefore admit that a lack of funds robs the ECB of the ability to formulate an independent and transparent policy .
Its financing requirements must be covered so that its independence cannot be called into question .
Secondly , we are in favour of this increase because it will help to foster the credibility of the ECB on the markets .
Thirdly : this increase will enhance the ability of the ECB to react and adapt .
In the event of a serious imbalance on the markets , possibly doubling its reserves gives the European Central Bank the potential to carry out its task in the form of a stability policy more effectively .
It gives it the possibility to react more flexibly because it has the necessary funds at its disposal .
Our report also introduces an additional model for strengthening the transparency of this procedure and I would therefore ask that you vote in favour of increasing the reserves .
Mr President , in this draft legislative resolution , Parliament approves the ECB ' s recommendation for a Council regulation concerning the continued calling in of foreign reserve assets .
The following reasons are given : first , the Treaty makes provision for this .
If it is not applied in the form of a regulation , this could be construed as a difference of opinion between the ECB and the Council .
Secondly , the ECB should gain in financial independence .
Thirdly , the foreign exchange intervention instrument will be made more credible and the capacity of the ECB to adjust to various scenarios will be fostered .
Of course , there can be no objection to any structural improvement of the ECB ' s financial situation .
The only question is whether or not pouring more money into it will solve the problem once and for all .
Before an answer can be given , the following questions at least must be considered :
Firstly : does it make political and economic sense to apply the sort of restrictive monetary policy which the ECB applies and which is more restrictive than the FED ?
Secondly , does the increase in interest rates for top refinancing facilities and deposit facilities applied on 9.2.2000 not run counter to economic growth ?
Thirdly , are more decisive measures to reduce unemployment permanently not the most tried and tested means of guaranteeing price stability ?
Fourthly : in addition to a supply-orientated economic policy , should greater emphasis not be placed on a demand-orientated economic policy , i.e. strengthening the European internal market through reduced import tax rates in the Member States ?
Fifthly , is it so wrong to assume that the exchange rate set when the euro was introduced had more to do with political wishful thinking than economic reality ?
Sixthly : what specific grounds are there for assuming that the ECB will probably sustain a loss in 1999 ?
Having answered these questions , our Group felt unable to vote for the proposal for a resolution .
Not because the ECB has too few foreign reserve assets , but because it is wrongly organised structurally and will therefore complain endlessly of these liquidity problems .
Mr President , the European Central Bank is recommending to the Council that it double its foreign reserve assets .
To that end , it puts forward two very different kinds of argument .
In a flash of lucidity , the ECB has declared that a central bank with a structural deficit would quite simply not be credible .
That is true , and it gives some cause for anxiety about the administrative ability of those who so quickly need to raise the ceiling level .
So it did not take long before the supposed instrument of EU independence and economic power so cruelly demonstrated its inadequacies .
No , really , we care little whether the ECB does or does not double its nuisance value .
Mr Goebbels points out that rejection by Parliament could be construed as indicating profound disagreement with the soundness of the policy pursued by the European Central Bank .
That is reason enough for us to vote against this text .
Mr President , we have good reason to be puzzled by the European Central Bank ' s request to double the ceiling of its calls of foreign reserve assets from the national central banks .
However , the fact that this operation is to take place so soon after the date when the single currency was launched clearly shows that the value of the reserves was seriously underestimated at the time .
Why ?
They all seem to be becoming rather more realistic again now .
The European Parliament ' s report seems even more alarmist when it refers in so many words to the potential instability of the euro which , according to the rapporteur , does not need to be demonstrated .
This slip of the pen will no doubt displease Mr Duisenberg who , for his part , keeps reiterating day after day that the euro is fundamentally stable .
Yet it is a revealing slip of the pen .
For it is , in effect , not realistic to believe that an artificial currency can inspire the same confidence as a currency solidly established among the people .
Mr President , on behalf of my colleague , Mr Solbes , I would like to make the following comments .
The Commission has been consulted by the Council - as it has been by Parliament - about the recommendation of the European Central Bank concerning further calls of foreign reserve assets to the ECB .
The Commission has therefore adopted a favourable opinion on the ECB ' s recommendation .
Should Parliament adopt the report of Mr Goebbels in its present form , this would mean that Parliament ' s and the Commission ' s views converge , which I would welcome .
Thank you , Commissioner Nielson .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
( The sitting was closed at 7.35 p.m. )
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of yesterday ' s sitting have been distributed .
Are there any comments ?
Mr President , last night , we were faced with the unwelcome news on EDF ( German TV channel ) that Mr Hombach , the EU Balkans Envoy , has been placed under investigation again by the Public Prosecutor .
I call upon you to inform the Council of this and to urge it to relieve Mr Hombach of all his duties until such time as this investigation has been resolved in a conclusive and legally valid manner .
We cannot afford for the European Union to make a bad impression again .
We take note of your comments , Mr Zimmerling .
Yesterday evening after the votes in the Chamber , a comment was made which I would like to distance myself from and not to be associated with .
There was no mistake in the interpretation and Members of this House did refer to the Technical Group as the Technical Group of Racists .
This was an unfair comment .
No one could , by the wildest stretch of the imagination , consider someone like Emma Bonino a racist .
People need to be extremely careful how they treat other people in this Chamber .
Some people may not like the fact that the Technical Group has been set up , but it has been .
These Members were elected just like me and every other Member in this House and we have to accept that fact .
People have rights and I do not think that the comment that was made yesterday was acceptable .
We take note of your comments , Mrs McKenna .
I hope that the French State , the city of Strasbourg and the European Parliament will be able to take steps to put such small matters right in so expensive a building .
Very well , Mr Seppnen , we also take note of your comments .
Mr President , on seeing the Minutes , I am horrified to note that I have once again failed to sign the register of attendance , although I participated in a quite considerable number of roll-call votes .
I would ask that my attendance be recorded in yesterday ' s Minutes .
That will not be a problem .
Mr President , I do not have any comment to make on the Minutes , but I do want to say something about the European Parliament ' s information services .
I do not know whether I have picked the right moment to say this .
It does not concern the Minutes , but relates to something else .
Can I go ahead ?
I would ask the parliamentary services to look into why it was left out .
I can assure you that the services will look into this very closely , Mr Poettering .
Mr President , further to yesterday ' s minutes , I would like to express my great disappointment at the fact that even fewer than 200 Members attended the votes yesterday .
I conclude this from the minutes .
Very well , Mr Manders , we take note of all of that .
( The Minutes were approved )
Vote
Whether national or European , any central bank exclusively serves the interests of big investors .
Our abstention expresses our opposition to both the national and the European organisation of the banking system .
- ( FR ) The European Central Bank ' s proposal induces us to reflect and to act prudently on two counts :
It seems legitimate to ask ourselves whether we are throwing funds down a bottomless pit !
Consequently , another question arises regarding the effective use of financial resources .
Why should the Member States give up their resources in favour of a Community institution which , as a result of its need to be independent , cannot be controlled ?
In conclusion , let us remember that a State is not defined in terms of the sovereignty it enjoys as a result of its autonomy of action .
CAP : information measures
Mr President , I am presenting a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the proposal for a Council regulation with regard to information measures relating to the common agricultural policy .
This report sets a precedent , as it is the first time that the Council has consulted Parliament on these measures .
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has studied this legislative motion for a resolution extremely promptly and with great interest , and has approved it unanimously .
I would like to highlight the following aspects of the amendments proposed by Parliament : First , in Amendment No 2 , rural information and activity centres are included as possible agents for these measures .
Secondly , the amendment refers specifically to the important role to be played by young farmers in the aforementioned measures .
Thirdly , we indicate to the Commission the value of simplification and cutting through red tape , both in the examination of the programmes submitted and in subsequent monitoring .
Fourthly , we single out countrymen and women , farmers and other parties active in rural areas as the ideal beneficiaries of these measures .
On examination of our amendments , it is clear that they have a human aspect and allow a far more dynamic , open discussion .
They avoid dealing with the CAP in a passive , purely bureaucratic and technological fashion .
That is why we believe that Parliament 's amendments improve the text .
In our opinion , these are proposals that should promote rural development and improve food safety and product quality .
The European Parliament would like the Commission to make these priorities , which are priority objectives for agriculture in 2000 , easier to visualise in these next information measures .
Mr President , that is all I have to say .
I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for the support and collaboration they have given me at all the meetings we have held .
I would also like the European Commission , in one way or another , to take account of Parliament 's criteria .
Mr President , as high a priority as possible ought to be given to transparency and to keeping EU citizens informed of the work being done in the EU .
Providing factual and objective information about cooperation in Europe has become very important in recent years as we face considerable challenges with the extension of the EU into Central and Eastern Europe .
It is especially important to explain what the common agricultural policy is about and to provide information about objectives , resources and potential for development .
There are many target groups - farmers , first and foremost , but also people generally , as well as everyone directly or indirectly affected .
If this work is to succeed , it is important that cooperation should be established with the farming organisations and also with consumers .
The common agricultural policy was the first , and is also the most extensive , of the Community ' s integrated policies and it accounts for a very large proportion of the EU ' s budget .
This means that the EU ' s agricultural arrangements are of benefit to all EU citizens .
The common agricultural policy is always undergoing change and development .
Circumstances are very different from one country to another , and it ought , therefore , to be farming organisations which are among the main players , because these organisations focus primarily upon farmers .
Mr President , the purpose of information on the common agricultural policy should be to establish a strategy for communication , directed mainly at those working in farming and rural areas .
In our opinion , the main criticism of this proposal for a Commission regulation relates to the opening up of a budget line to non-agricultural organisations and also the reduction in budget appropriations to EUR 4 500 000 .
I therefore welcome the rapporteur ' s proposal that the Commission should match the budgetary appropriations to the numerous organisations that have a right to funding under this regulation .
However , another negative aspect of the Commission ' s proposal relates to limiting cofinancing to a rate of 75 % , when actions implemented directly by the Commission are financed at a rate of 100 % .
Hence the importance of our amendment designed to supplement the concept set out in the report .
With our amendment , we hope to see Community cofinancing rise above 75 % for organisations representing small farmers and family-run farms in financial difficulty .
We hope that this amendment will be adopted .
Lastly , it is important to emphasise the need for the Commission to simplify its administrative procedures both in order to study the programmes presented by the organisations and for their future monitoring .
Mr President , I welcome this measure .
From an administrative point of view the formalisation is a good thing .
But when we come to think about it the amount of money is quite small - EUR 27 million over a period of six years .
Considering the size of the agricultural budget and the fact that it extends to every corner of the Union , it is a relatively small amount of money .
That is why I welcome that fact that most of it will be spent at the rate of 50 % rather than 75 % .
The more of it that is spent at the rate of up to 50 % , the further the money goes and the greater the impact .
The common agricultural policy gets a lot of criticism .
The long-term effect of the common agricultural policy in that sense will be greater than people have often imagined .
I have no fault to find with the way the Commission interacted with the agriculture industry over the years .
From my experience the European Commission was more open to representations and information exchange with the agriculture industry than most departments of agriculture in most Member States .
The Commission taught Member States over the years how to be open with very limited resources .
But there are new pressures , arising out of consumer concerns about new processes and systems of producing food .
These have to be explained , not only to farmers , but to consumers as well .
There is a lot of mythology about what is safe and what is not safe .
We have an important job to do to explain the workings of the whole productive system to the consumers of Europe and those outside the Union who will buy our food .
It is important that we apply as many resources as possible to this .
The last point I want to make is that , arising from these pressures , we will have a reaction from agriculture .
To devote as many resources as possible to good relations is a wise policy .
Mr President , firstly I would like to thank the rapporteur , Maria Izquierdo Rojo , and the members of the Committee , for their report .
The proposed regulation intends to provide the Commission with a tool to help it to present an operational model for European agriculture , and give wider publicity to the common agricultural policy .
In this way , the implementation of agricultural policy is facilitated .
Now I would like to speak about Parliament ' s proposed amendments . They are not generally aimed at changing the subject matter but rather at amending the proposals .
Amendments Nos 2 and 6 concern organisations falling within the scope of aid .
It is the opinion of the Commission that it is not necessary to mention the groups and organisations by name .
All agricultural organisations and rural players fall within the scope of aid according to Article 2 .
This being the case , the proposed addenda are unnecessary .
Amendments Nos 5 , 8 and 10 concern measures that are eligible for aid .
Amendment No 5 contains amendments regarding information services and fora for discussions for men and women in rural areas .
They are unnecessary , as they are already contained in the Commission ' s proposal .
One of them , which reads " supporting them in their choices " is not in harmony with the Commission ' s proposal .
The purpose of this regulation is not to offer farmers any special services . Local bodies are better qualified to do that .
The resources available would not be sufficient for that either .
I would , moreover , like to make the comment , with regard to the amendments tabled for Article 3 , that information visits are not being ruled out .
The list of activities that are eligible for aid is not exhaustive , which is indicated in the word " particularly " .
The Commission is prepared , however , to adopt this amendment .
The funding of long-term exchange programmes cannot , however , be accepted , as such action is not a part of the information policy .
That is why it makes no sense to repeat the contents of the model in further detail .
Amendments Nos 7 and 13 concern contributions .
The Commission thinks that it is not desirable to pay more than 75 % of eligible aid costs .
The funds available are modest .
The lower the contribution stays the more measures there will be that can be financed and the greater the multiple effect .
Amendments Nos 9 and 12 concern the allocation and approval of appropriations .
As we know , Parliament is a budgetary authority together with the Council .
For this reason , the Commission thinks Amendment No 9 is not necessary .
Amendment No 11 concerns evaluation .
The Commission agrees with Parliament on the usefulness of regular evaluation .
It can best be taken account of in the implementing regulation .
Amendment No 4 concerns administration .
This extra recital is unnecessary in the regulation , in the opinion of the Commission .
Provision for administrative details , evaluation and later assessment will be laid down by the Commission in the Implementing Regulation .
In this connection , it has to be said that the effective monitoring of public funds has to be assured in the process regardless of how open and simple the process is .
Amendments Nos 1 and 3 concern linguistic nuances .
These the Commission does not consider significant , as Recitals 4 and 7 in the Commission ' s proposal are not as restrictive .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
We shall now proceed to the vote .
( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
Grain legumes
The European Parliament has been analysing this proposal since October 1999 and approved this draft legislative resolution unanimously on 23 February 2000 .
I would like to highlight the following aspects of the amendments proposed by the European Parliament .
First , Amendment No 1 on the inclusion of a Recital 2a .
This amendment supplements the Council approach , which is purely commercial , and opts for a proposal with wider economic , human and food quality aims .
Whereas the Council only talks about the market , the European Parliament highlights the economic interest for the Community of the production of these grain legumes .
Given the deficit of protein crops in the European Union , Parliament considers that this system should be improved without cutting the level of aid .
Secondly , Parliament ' s Amendment No 2 proposes that seed vetches should also be included in the aid system .
Aid for seeds already exists for rice , chickpeas and lentils .
Thirdly , Amendment No 3 indicates that , in our opinion , the Commission should , without further delay , make proposals for the 2000-2003 period .
However , this has still not been done .
Secondly , successive periods show that we are faced with a chronic imbalance in this system .
The maximum guaranteed area is being systematically reduced , thus penalising time and again the farmers who are suffering reductions in aid of up to 20 % .
Therefore , Mr President , what the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of the European Parliament would really like to see is an improvement in the system .
However , we appreciate what the Commission is telling us , that this is a time of serious budgetary restrictions that we could not implement without reducing aid .
I thank all the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for their collaboration and support , as well as the opinion of the Committee on Budgets .
Thanks also to the Commission for its willingness to hold a dialogue and I hope it will be open to our proposals .
Mr President , Commissioner , the report that is being proposed for approval today in plenary refers to a minimal reform of Regulation 1577 / 96 on aid for the grain legume sector .
So slight is the reform that it does not amend the total maximum guaranteed quantity , although it does split it into two , nor the amount of aid per hectare .
The only new element is the substitution of the management committee by the cereal management committee .
Nevertheless , I would like to make it clear that we have missed the opportunity to support a substantial , very arid area of southern Europe , which has no other crop alternative for its soil .
Our concern is therefore to avoid damaging the aid system for this sector of agriculture and , more specifically , for the production of chickpeas , lentils and vetches .
Chickpeas and lentils are two essential products in Spanish gastronomic culture and in our diet , the Mediterranean diet , which is now so highly thought of by scientists , which includes dried pulses in our traditional recipes .
The purchase of dried pulses in Spain has been increasing by up to 5 % annually .
Another sector which requires this type of product is livestock farming .
Finally , we are talking about Community protection for a crop which last year , in my region , provided an honest living for around 17 000 families .
Moreover , this is a sector in which , fortunately , there has not been a proliferation of bounty-hunters who move into agriculture in order to receive grants from the Union .
I am therefore asking for the support of Parliament for the Commission 's proposals and the improvements which , by way of amendment , are contained in Mara Izquierdo 's report .
I would also draw your attention to the fact that , in recent years , conventional farming has been put under pressure .
Prices have fallen for just about every product . This is what some people call stability .
Farmers experience it somewhat differently because costs are , of course , rising and price freezes will therefore automatically be experienced as a setback .
I would also recall the fact that the Commission has recently tightened up on the conditions for intervening in the area of grain .
The fact is that the system of aid established in 1989 has been modified several times , but no report has been presented on the application of the present system .
Finally , it is important to point out that it is vital for Portugal that dry bean should be considered in this system , even without the change to the maximum guaranteed surface .
We therefore firmly believe that the Commission should bear in mind these amendments to the new system which it hopes to establish for grain legumes .
Mr President , I would again like to thank the rapporteur , Maria Izquierdo Rojo , for an excellent and constructive report .
There are two Commission documents that serve as a basis for the issue of grain legumes .
The first is a report on the aid scheme in place for grain legumes , and the second a proposal for improved administration of the system .
What vegetables are we actually talking about ?
I know that the Spanish members know the subject well , but I should mention that by grain legumes are meant three annual vegetables with a high protein content and which are gathered in the form of dry seeds .
Lentils and chickpeas serve as food for humans , while the seeds of vetches , which to us are more unusual vegetables , are used as animal feed .
Grain legumes are grown as field crops , particularly in the southern part of the Union , as they thrive well in dry climates .
In fact Spain accounts for 90 % of all EU grain legume production .
Grain legumes are not covered by the aid scheme that was remodelled with the Agenda 2000 programme , although they can be used in crop rotation schemes involving other crops such as corn .
Grain legumes are covered by their own scheme where the amount of fixed aid per hectare is EUR 181 and the maximum guaranteed area is 400 000 hectares .
The scheme was established in 1989 when the growing area of grain legumes was reduced at the expense of corn , which was already suffering from overproduction .
The special scheme aimed to preserve traditional legume grain growing areas by means of the aid per hectare arrangement .
What are the conclusions of the Commission ' s report ?
An examination of how the scheme has been applied reveals that the MGA of 400 000 hectares has been systematically exceeded .
There are two conclusions to be drawn from this .
First , the aim of the scheme has been successfully achieved and , second , the growing areas have to be brought under better control .
The MGA overruns in the last few years have shown themselves to be mainly with regard to vetches .
Although the scheme is being applied satisfactorily as a whole , MGA management is problematic , as those responsible for the overruns are not being treated any differently from other producers .
So how could the system be improved ?
We should aim to find solutions regarding improvements within the framework of the present scheme and the appropriations set aside for it .
We are in a situation in which the Agenda 2000 reform has been adopted and international trade negotiations are drawing closer .
The other reason is that it might involve extra expense .
In addition , it is proposed that the Management Committee for Dried Fodder be replaced by the Management Committee for Cereals .
The purpose of this change is only to legally endorse what has become common practice on the committees .
Members of the European Parliament , in the light of my comments , the proposal will probably not be difficult to adopt so that it can be applied from the marketing year 2000 - 2001 onwards .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
We shall now proceed to the vote .
( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
Additionality
The next item is the debate on the following oral questions to the Commission :
B5-0207 / 2000 , by Mrs Evans and others , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on additionality
B5-0209 / 2000 , by Mr Davies and Mrs Attwooll , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the additionality principle in Structural Fund appropriations .
Additionality is meant to ensure that happens and to prevent governments from using EU funding to replace their own aid as this would defeat the object .
But in many regions and nations that is what happens at the moment and I can illustrate the problem using the example of Wales .
The granting of EU Objective 1 status to West Wales and the Valleys last year was an acknowledgement of the poverty in two-thirds of the country .
EUR 1.2 billion of European funding used effectively could provide exactly the additional help that is intended .
But if we look at the government budget to Wales , in practice there will be no more government spending next year with Objective 1 than there is this year before Objective 1 .
The National Assembly budget which comes from the Treasury remains the same so that in the first fifteen months , at least , of the new programme period there are no additional resources at all .
The money will be taken from other budgets in the National Assembly , such as health and education .
Therefore central government expenditure is reduced .
Under the Structural Funds , areas of greatest need are identified and selected on regional criteria .
Yet when the Commission looks at additionality it is dealt with on a Member State level .
This is a clear contradiction .
The rules as they stand allow this to happen .
Member States are not legally required to demonstrate additionality at the regional or programme level .
I agree with the statement made by Commissioner Barnier in a written reply to me when he said that the spirit of additionality rather than the letter of the law on the matter is an important consideration .
We need the revision of the system and a central part of that is looking at additionality internally in the Member States at the programme level as well as at the Member State level .
Mechanisms need to be in place to ensure that Member States respect the principle and the spirit of additionality so that funds are targeted and spent effectively .
So we are asking in this question , Commissioner , for confirmation that this will be done and I look forward to the vote on this debate in April .
Mr President , the principle of additionality exists in order to ensure that transfers to the Member States under the Structural Funds add to , rather than replace , national expenditures on structural development measures .
In this way , European Union structural policies will have a greater impact on reducing regional and social disparities .
The ex-ante verification of additionality is at present being undertaken in application of Article 11 of Regulation 1260 / 99 . This is an integral part of the negotiation of the Structural Funds programmes with the Member States .
This exercise is a demonstration of the Member States ' intention to implement the principle of additionality over the programming period that lies ahead .
Where necessary , the Commission may request clarification from the Member States on the details of their forecasts for eligible expenditure for the period 2000-2006 .
As a further measure , the Commission has prepared detailed implementing provisions for inclusion in the programming documents covering both the situation ex ante and also the mid-term and final verification of additionality .
The second issue covered by the questions is the possibility of the verification of additionality at regional level .
I would like to develop a number of elements of previous answers .
In practice , reduced national eligible expenditure in some regions would have to be balanced with an increase in other regions in order for additionality to be respected overall .
A second point of clarification concerns the scope of additionality and the suggestion that , when implemented at national level , it may be incompatible with the regional vocation of the Structural Funds .
This is why the Commission takes the view that the strict application of additionality at regional level would lead to excessive rigidity in the management by the Member States of their own development expenditure .
Mr President , can I begin by thanking my colleague from Wales - though from another party , Jillian Evans , for raising this issue .
There are two major news stories breaking in the United Kingdom today .
Now these stories are not just topical background to this debate .
In my view , they underpin the very issues which we are considering in the context of Structural Fund spending under Objectives 1 and 2 in those parts of the European Union which are facing major economic problems .
As a direct result of what I would describe as UK government policy , our agricultural economy has all but collapsed .
Farm incomes are at their lowest level for a generation and this decline is also hitting the manufacturing sector .
I turn then to the central hand of Labour government at work in terms of the European Structural Funds package .
The unacceptable behaviour of the UK Government over this has already brought about the timely end of the political career of the first Secretary of the Welsh Assembly .
Sadly , the Structural Funds spending issues have been marked by delay by disputes in relation to matched funding and also in relation to the issue of additionality .
We reiterated the importance of ensuring that Structural Funds do not just merely , as it were , replace public spending otherwise earmarked for those areas that are lagging behind .
I am rather sorry that the Regional Policy Committee did not incorporate that in the report themselves , but there it is .
There are a number of questions that I would ask Commissioner Liikanen to take back to Commissioner Barnier .
I appreciate that he is the Commissioner in office today but he may not be in a position to respond to these points himself .
What progress is being made in relation to the approval of the programming documents within the Commission ?
Will the Commissioner take the step in terms of transparency of publishing at an appropriate time the correspondence that has taken place between the Commission and the National Assembly ?
We were assured , I am bound to say by a rather complacent Economic Secretary , who has now become the First Secretary , that all matters were proceeding in an orderly fashion .
Yet we hear from remarks that are made from time to time by the Commission that there are real problems and we find it difficult to do our job within this Parliament without that degree of transparency .
So , will the Commission undertake to make that information available to all Members of the European Parliament ?
Will they undertake to keep us informed in relation to these matters ?
Will they undertake to challenge Member State Governments in relation to the maps that have been drawn up in relation to Objective 2 where also there has been quite clear evidence of jerrymandering also .
The additionality issue is an important one , but I must say it is not the only one which gives much concern to many Members of this European Parliament .
Mr President , I should just like to touch on a couple of points that Mr Evans raised .
First of all , I acknowledge that there is difficulty in the Midlands with the Rover Group .
I would not like to make political capital out of it .
There are too many jobs at stake .
Secondly , he also mentioned their by-election .
I congratulate his party in securing a victory in this by-election .
But , unlike him , I have been in Ayr for the last three weeks , on the doorstep .
I can tell you that additionality was never raised once .
I turn to the question at hand .
I thank the Nationalists for having raised this .
It is right that we have a proper discussion on the whole question of the Structural Funds .
But I suspect there is a deeper plot here .
What are they actually trying to achieve ?
I listened to Ms Evans .
Basically , what I took from her contribution is that she wants to redefine the Structural Funds regulations .
Is it therefore Parliament 's role now to change that ?
We should not change that .
The role of this Parliament is to ensure that the rules are complied with .
That is what we should concentrate on .
I know that Ms Evans , along with one of her colleagues , Dafydd Wigley and a member of the Scottish Nationalist Party , Mr Wilson , went to meet Commissioner Barnier .
I should like to read out the statement made by Commissioner Barnier after that meeting :
" I know that there has been a great deal of debate in Scotland and Wales recently about European regional funding .
But I have the impression that this has sometimes confused two separate issues - additionality and cofinancing .
I am not surprised that there is a certain amount of confusion among the Nationalists on this .
We have always been satisfied in the past that the national requirements have been met " .
As the Commission will be aware , however , a number of Member States within the European Union have devolved systems of regional government .
Such regional systems of government are normally financed in whole or in part from central government funds .
It appears to me that , under the present rules , central government can build the EU contribution to structural funding into its calculations for determining regional government budgets .
At the very least , this engenders a lack of transparency .
It may also mean that the additionality principle is not being properly implemented on a region-by-region basis .
I accept , like Mrs Evans , that this does not , strictly speaking , contradict the letter of European Union law on this matter .
But , unlike her , it seems to me to be quite clearly contrary to the spirit of additionality rules and undermines the very purposes for which structural funding was established in the first place .
Mr President , first of all I would like to congratulate my Welsh colleague for her excellent speech and I am also glad that there is basic agreement from all sections of the political spectrum .
Some of us newcomers to this Parliament are already beginning to tire of good intentions , fantastic programmes and of hearing about the spirit of the Community regulations .
Instead of spirit , we are going to end up with ghosts and sleepless nights because , in reality , commitments are not being fulfilled .
It is therefore appropriate for the European institutions themselves to start by making good their commitments with regard to additionality .
The Court of Auditors has already drawn up an assessment of the implementation of the additionality principle in June 1999 which shows that it is a total disaster and a mistake .
Scotland , Wales , the Basque country , Catalonia , Galicia , even a region as large as Andalusia , cannot depend on the decisions of a central State , however much of a State it is .
The first rules that need to be complied with are those in the Treaty , in this case , Article 158 , which takes the objective of economic and social cohesion to its highest level .
Our task is to ensure that following on from this , the Commission ' s regulations and behaviour attain and serve to attain these objectives .
Our task is also to be alert enough here to criticise and to raise the issue whenever we see that this is not being done .
We support the good timing and the reasoning of the issues raised by the authors of the oral question and we agree with the comments that have already been made here .
Similarly , we do not accept that the Commission should in any way associate itself with the degree of inertia shown by some national governments who are not prepared to support the regions with the greatest needs .
We therefore call on the Commission to ...
( The President cut the speaker off )
Mr President , I have been watching this whole business of Structural Funds and additionality for many years , and there are a number of things that we can learn from the past .
The first is that the money in absolute terms in most regions of the Community is relatively small , and its impact is political rather economic - though that is important too .
Even in rich regions they will appreciate the fact that the European Union tries to help close the gap between rich and poor .
The money is actually transferred and , regardless of whether the letter of the law is observed or not , the countries become the better off .
Another point that I would like to make is that we can learn from the past .
We are now into to the third or fourth programme .
What we must do is learn from the mistakes of the past and try and apply the lessons to the future .
In my personal experience in Ireland , I never heard the European Commission take Ireland to task for failure in the area of additionality .
But one should remember that , between 1982 and 1992 , the Structural Funds to Ireland peaked ; they are getting less now , and there was a generous amount of money .
But , from 1982 to 1992 , the public capital programme actually reduced , including Structural Funds .
It reduced in real terms by 30 % .
So where did the Structural Funds go ?
Mr President , I am going to refer to a subject that none of the previous speakers has discussed .
I am referring to the report by the Court of Auditors on the principle of additionality .
This is a report that was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities on 9 March .
This report contains a very interesting section - section 62 - that discusses privatisation .
Over the past few years , various European Union governments have enthusiastically embarked on a policy of privatisation placing the heritage which previously belonged to the community in very few hands .
Mr Liikanen is an expert in accounting , and knows that privatisation is a form of public disinvestment and , specifically , that it can be a form of regional disinvestment .
If , for example , an airline providing regional services was privatised , regional disinvestment could occur , and we would thus be infringing the principle of additionality .
Taking into account the importance of the categories of spending affected , telecommunications , energy , etc . , this simple operation can substantially modify the final result .
And we also have the response by the Commission , which must be very recent , and which Commissioner Liikanen , as a member of the College , must remember perfectly .
And the response given to us by the Commission in section 62 is very short .
That is , the Commission is replying using the Olendorf method .
We have here Commissioner Liikanen who knows the subject very well , and perhaps he could give us a more specific response , as I believe that this considerably affects the core of additionality .
The second issue is that the Berlin financial forecasts anticipated a substantial reduction in the Structural Funds .
This year we have EUR 29 430 million . In the year 2006 we will have a nominal figure of EUR 26 600 million , that is to say , a reduction of 14 % over seven years .
Taking into account inflation , I can calculate that there is a reduction of 20 % .
Mr President , Commissioner , as has been said here , EU funds cannot replace Member States ' public expenditure and the structural aid that runs parallel with it .
This principle of additionality is important to reduce regional disparities , which is the aim of the Union ' s regional and structural policies .
The Commission must oblige the Member States to work in such a way that the principle of additionality is implemented both nationally and regionally .
I suspect that this principle is being seriously violated in the Member States .
In some cases this violation is covered up by including as national regional funds development funds , which are mainly , however , targeted at the fastest growing areas .
The regional failure to observe the principle of additionality aggravates the situation with regard to internal regional disparities within Member States , which runs counter to the aims of the Union ' s regional policy .
That is simply unacceptable .
We are further told , however , that all is well , because the additionality rules in the regulation are being carried through properly .
And then two paragraphs later , the identification of the structural assistance interventions in the eligible regions is unreliable , and this leads to the inclusion of a large number of estimates and hypotheses which are difficult to verify .
' Difficult ' indeed , Sir .
No wonder that this causes disquiet throughout the Community and let us ask the Commission to give it its full attention .
I think we must look in detail at that problem , and we need also better coordination between DGs on this issue .
Additionality is your concept , and it is up to you to ensure that it works effectively in Member States .
We understand as well , of course , the problems you are facing concerning the overlapping of programmes , creating problems of continuity for you .
Verification is another matter that needs to be tackled with Member States , because they are guilty as well .
One of the worst offenders in this connection is the UK .
No additional money has been built into the budget of our Welsh Assembly .
This is clear non-compliance .
The European Parliament and the European Union admit that our nation of Wales is poor and yet the UK government , not only the Labour government , has not complied with additionality .
It is all very well for my colleague Jonathan Evans to imply that his party is not guilty .
For eighteen long years the concept of additionality was not complied with by his government either .
I think some momentum is being lost , Mr President .
I was talking to councils in Wales yesterday .
They need this scheme to go ahead .
It is in line with the excellent principle of cohesion , and we ask the Commission to adhere to that and to assist the poorest regions in the European Union .
Mr President , I had not expected to speak today because I represent the south-east of England which is one of the more prosperous regions of England and of Europe .
We pay the taxes that make up the grants that other areas receive .
We have no Objective 1 funding .
What Objective 2 funding we had has been reduced by the present government and the Conver Fund that used to be very helpful is now being phased out .
So , why do I speak ?
Because even in the south-east of England there are pockets of deprivation .
In particular I want to speak of the Isle of Wight , a beautiful island with 130 000 good people but 68 % GDP per head of the European average - a very poor region .
It gets no support from Europe .
Why not ?
It does not get the grant from Europe because at NUTS II it is classified with Hampshire .
Hampshire is a prosperous county - 100 % of European average so , no money for the Isle of Wight .
Yet , it has a population of 130 000 , a bigger population than the land Islands which are NUTS II and do get grants from the European Union .
The island has taken its case against the British Government that it feels is treating it unfairly , to the High Court in London .
I think they might win that case .
This week , in what I would say is a landmark ruling by the European Ombudsman , he has said that constitutes maladministration by EUROSTAT and by the European Commission .
He has recommended that the Commission and EUROSTAT should look again at this particular problem .
- Mr President , Tony Blair and Donald Dewar will not have slept well last night !
Their worst nightmares have turned out to be reality .
The Labour Party heartlands of Scotland have sent them an unmistakable message .
The Scottish Labour voter - for so long taken for granted - has spoken .
The Scottish Conservative Party candidate in Ayr , John Scott , has humiliated Labour into third place - 5 000 or more votes behind .
This will only get worse for Labour when the truth about their incompetent and cynical administration of the European Union 's Structural Funds becomes better known and better understood .
Because of the Labour Government 's tardiness in submitting its proposed maps nine months late in December instead of March last year , it is still struggling to come up with acceptable specific projects .
Scottish local authorities are left not knowing whether or not the projects which they are having to underwrite will indeed obtain Structural Fund support .
Commissioner : three questions :
When do you expect to be able to provide certainty for the Scottish regions and the badly needed projects which are looking for EU support ?
Are you satisfied with the preparedness of the Scottish Executive to provide the necessary matching funding and to assure you that it is truly additional ?
Or is it all just the usual Labour / Liberal coalition hot air , all mouth , while feet drag along the cobbled streets of Edinburgh and European money is hijacked by the Treasury in London ?
I have listened carefully to this interesting debate and I will transmit all the questions which were raised here to my colleague , Mr Barnier , and he will respond accordingly .
I am sure he will send you his replies at least to all those issues which concern Structural Funds and additionality .
Mr President , inevitably Commissioner Liikanen was not in a position other than to reply formally to the debate and say that he had heard what had been said and would pass it on .
That is not very satisfactory from the point of view of the many Members of this House who made important points .
I request that Mr Barnier gives a written summary of his response to these points .
I am sure that Commissioner Barnier will be willing to follow up on this interesting debate .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place on 11 April .
Adjournment of the session
Ladies and gentlemen , I wish you a good weekend and I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned .
( The sitting was closed at 10.50 a.m. )
Resumption of the session
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 17 March 2000 .
Statement by the President
Ladies and gentlemen , as you know , on Tuesday a terrible accident took place in Kitzsteinhorn , near Salzburg .
Eleven people were killed in an avalanche and that is not the final death toll . It may be worse yet .
The next few hours will tell . I would simply like to tell you that at these difficult times my thoughts , indeed our thoughts go out to the victims of this disaster and to their families .
Madam President , the verbatim report of proceedings for 16 March did not record my speech in full .
I should like to correct it because the meaning has been distorted .
It says : " I am therefore able to tell the House that both Felix Habsburg-Lothringen and Karl Ludwig Habsburg-Lothringen have valid passports without any form of restriction . "
It should read " will never distance " .
In addition to this , there has been a marked return to suppression of journalistic activities , which has been documented in a report by other sources as well .
We feel that these actions taken by Turkey against Members of Parliament are cause for very serious concern .
I would like the Turkish government to be asked to clarify whether blacklists also exist for European countries other than Italy .
Thank you , Mrs Morgantini .
We shall , of course , look into the matter thoroughly .
Madam President , I am rising to speak about what has just been said by Mrs Morgantini .
Yesterday , Tuesday morning , Mr Birdal went to prison to serve the sentence that the Turkish courts have imposed on him .
Since then , Madam President , dozens of Spanish and Basque citizens have been victims of attacks , extortion and threats of a type that can only be described as fascist .
In fact , almost every day we witness events that take us back to the darkest days of European history .
Thank you , Mr Galeote Quecedo .
Of course , we all remember the very moving debate we had right here on the subject .
We can assure the journalist in question of this institution ' s complete solidarity and opposition to this truly disgraceful act of terrorism .
Mr Sturdy , the chairman of our delegation , was unable to attend at that precise time , Madam President , but he has written to you this morning to confirm what I am about to say .
Something quite astonishing for this type of meeting occurred .
Everyone was quite dumbfounded by this attitude .
This is regrettable in the extreme , since this was an otherwise excellent visit , and because we wish to maintain the best relations with Canada , after so many difficult years , principally due to conflicts over fishing .
It is imperative to restore good relations , and we therefore deplore this incident most strongly .
Madam President , I should like you to ask the Canadian government for some explanation of the significance of these declarations .
Of course , Mr Berthu .
This is certainly a quite regrettable incident .
Indeed , I seem to remember , as you have just stated , that the members of the Canadian delegation expressed their regrets at this incident and offered their apologies .
Madam President , 13 April will see the start of the trial , in Iran , of thirteen Iranian citizens who are of the Jewish religion .
Mr Tajani , you are quite right .
I did approach the Iranian government , but received no response .
You can count on me , therefore , to try again .
Tomorrow ' s agenda includes the topic of human cloning .
I should also mention an interest of my own since I am a professor of the University on unpaid leave of absence from that institution which is also involved .
Ladies and gentlemen , I should like to get on with the items on the agenda .
I do not think that all these contributions are genuine points of order .
We do still have two of them , though .
Madam President , I shall be very brief .
We share Mr Galeote Quecedo ' s disapproval of the displays of politically motivated violence in the Basque country .
Having said that , I think it would be a more accurate analysis and a fairer representation of the facts if we attributed this violence to its real instigators .
The murderers of the Basque country are not inspired by the doctrine of Benito Mussolini , but by Marxism .
These are the extreme left-wing ideas represented in this House .
Unless we therefore consider that they benefit ...
( The President cut the speaker off )
Let us see if Mr Katiforis ' contribution is a genuine point of order .
Madam President , I would simply like to follow up what Mrs Morgantini said about the lists in Turkey .
It seems that there is also a list of Greek subjects and I see that Turkey ' s Foreign Minister has stated that any country can make such lists .
Naturally , I imagine , he must mean any country that does not belong to the European Union ....
( The President cut the speaker off )
Mr Katiforis , we shall look into it , thank you .
Welcome
Ladies and gentlemen , on behalf of the House I should like to welcome to the visitors gallery the Scottish Parliament ' s European Committee , led by Mr Hugh Henry , its convenor .
The Scottish Parliament is one of the newest institutions within the European Union since , as you know , elections to the parliament were held in May 1999 and the Parliament was opened in July that year .
Indeed it was our former fellow Member , Mrs Ewing , whom I must welcome more particularly , who opened the first sitting of the Scottish Parliament .
( Applause )
Agenda
We will hear statements by the Commission and Council presidency tomorrow on the interception of communications .
It is a sensitive subject . It is one where the powers of the Union are strictly circumscribed and the major political groups have not wished to take a position until they have heard the Council and the Commission .
The item is on the agenda of our next committee meeting .
Madam President , I should like to speak in support of this motion .
I must say I find it extremely sensible , since the debate is to take place shortly and we are awaiting details which will enable us to give a more informed opinion on this very important issue .
Is there any objection to Mr Watson ' s request on behalf of his committee to postpone voting on the resolution on the Echelon system until the April part-session ?
There do not seem to be any objections .
( Parliament gave its assent )
General product safety - BSE tests
The next item is the Commission statement on general product safety .
Madam President , there were two issues within my area of competence dealt with in the Commission this morning and I have the pleasure and the honour to report to Parliament on both of these issues .
The first one as you mentioned , relates to the proposals on the amendment of the directive on general product safety .
I am very pleased to be able to present to you the draft revision of the directive on general product safety which the Commission has approved today .
The idea behind the directive is in fact quite simple .
Only safe food or industrial products are to be placed on the market , and this means European products as well as imported products .
We have undertaken an extensive stocktaking exercise on the implementation of the present directive .
The report on the main findings will be circulated in parallel to the draft revision of the directive .
While the general approach of the directive is sound , experience has revealed certain weaknesses which we are now trying to correct .
We first wish to clarify the scope of the directive .
This directive is meant to provide consistent assurances of the safety of products for consumers .
It is also meant to fill possible gaps in sectoral legislation , for instance market surveillance or emergency procedures , which are rarely foreseen in specific pieces of legislation .
However , it does not apply where a specific sector of legislation covers the same aspects under consideration .
We want to make sure that the directive gives the best coverage possible to products used by consumers .
This also means products which have migrated from the professional field to personal use , for instance laser pointers , and secondly products which are used to provide a service .
Two examples of that would be hair-dryers in a hair salon or equipment in a gym centre .
We want to have a more efficient system .
This implies , therefore , additional obligations for producers and distributors to provide information .
This is probably the most important element in this amended set of provisions .
The present situation is in fact far from ideal .
This notification is compulsory in the United States but not so far in the European Union .
This particular provision is designed to rectify that situation .
I also want a reinforcement of the market surveillance by Member States .
As you know , there is no good law if it is not applied properly .
Member States now will be required to strengthen the tasks of the surveillance authorities .
They will be required to establish sanctions ; they will have to develop links with other Member States as well , in particular through a network of enforcement authorities of the Member States .
This is also extremely important from an industry point of view in order to make sure that a level playing field is maintained between competitors , especially in relation to imported goods .
We also want to improve the rapid alert system , a system which is operated by the Commission to monitor the information on dangerous products and measures taken .
The scope of Rapex , as it is called , is extended to cover voluntary measures taken by industry to withdraw a product .
The practical operation of the system will be improved .
We now also foresee the possibility of opening the system to third countries , in particular candidate countries .
We also intend to introduce provisions to simplify the procedures for emergency measures at Community level , so that we can take rapid action with the advice of a regulatory committee .
I will mention here that we have now introduced an export ban for products withdrawn at Community level .
Another point to which I wish to draw your attention is improved transparency .
Consumers often lack confidence because they do not know what is happening .
We believe that in line with the general policy of the Commission , citizens have the right to know which real dangers they are exposed to and the measures taken .
The limitations to this is , of course , professional secrecy , as defined in Article 287 of the Treaty , but that of course is except when there are overriding public health considerations .
It is urgent that those countries which aspire to join the European Union should be perfectly clear about the changing nature of the acquis communautaire and the regulations that they will have to follow .
Is there to be a regular process of dialogue in which they will be involved ?
Secondly , could I ask about the process whereby dangerous products , or products that are deemed to be dangerous , are removed from the market .
In this instance , is it the case that it will be possible to speed up the procedure under the rapid reaction process for taking something out of the marketplace once it is perceived to be dangerous ?
Flammable furniture would be a case I have in mind .
Is there going to be a widening of the area of scrutiny which will take into account products of this sort ?
Thank you , Mr Whitehead for those words of support which I greatly welcome .
Let me say in relation to your question on candidate countries that there is an ongoing discussion in relation to this issue .
Issues such as this particular provision will also be the focus of our attention .
Thirdly , I am aware of your concern in relation to flammable furniture and other items , and these are being kept under review .
Commissioner , you have just made the very important point that consumers should be able to be confident .
They should be able to be confident in all areas and that a whole raft of instruments seems to have been implemented to that end , particularly the White Paper on consumption and food safety .
This would forestall fresh criticism of us as rather a remote body , a forum that does not sufficiently involve the citizen in all debates .
Would you be in favour of establishing a forum of this kind ?
I can confirm that there are a number of proposals in the pipeline in relation to the very issue that you draw attention to .
I have been concerned by the lack of the involvement of the civil society in the issues that you talk about , particularly in relation to trade .
So I can assure you , Mrs Auroi , that I am concerned about these issues .
I take that responsibility seriously and we will be moving along in this way .
Madam President , if there is to be an export ban on products banned in the Community , have you investigated and calculated how many jobs will be lost in Europe as a result ?
Has this been agreed with the trade unions and employers ' federations ?
I have to stress , Madam President and Members of Parliament , that my responsibility rests in the area of public health and consumer protection .
I have said on a number of occasions , including in this Parliament , that the primary consideration must be the protection of the public .
In circumstances where there might be a conflict between the protection of consumers , particularly their health , and monetary issues , public health must , of course , take precedence .
That is not to say that the considerations that you draw attention to should be ignored .
They cannot , but in any situation of conflict where you have to choose one or the other , public health must always prevail .
Madam President , Commissioner , I wish to congratulate the Commission on this initiative , which I believe to be extremely important .
I would , however , like the Commissioner to explain how we can take such an initiative against the background of the common agricultural policy , which runs totally counter to promoting food safety and quality ?
Or is this simply a way of dealing with public opinion , as the public is increasingly suspicious of the food chain ? We cannot change public opinion overnight on the basis of this agricultural policy .
Why not start by changing our agricultural policy so that it inspires complete confidence in consumers ?
Let me say that the provisions that are contained in this particular legislative document relating to food will operate for such time until the general food law comes into operation .
In bringing forward that legislation , of course , it will be necessary to have detailed consultations with the other Commissioners , and in particular Commissioner Fischler , who has the responsibility for the CAP .
I can assure you , Mr Campos , that the interaction that takes place at Commission level on these issues puts a high premium on food safety .
It is my belief that there will not be , nor can there be allowed to be , any conflict between concerns relating to the development of farming and concerns relating to food safety .
Madam President , I too would like to say how much the Commission ' s statements today have pleased me .
However , I would like to dwell on the point of transparency because , like yourself , I too Commissioner think that transparency is directly and mainly related to the public ' s confidence in food safety .
As I mentioned the limitation to this is professional secrecy or confidentiality as defined by Article 287 of the Treaty , except in circumstances where there is an overriding public health consideration .
In those circumstances , the provisions contained in Article 287 must take a back seat .
In those circumstances both the Treaty itself and the legislative provision that is being brought forward here this afternoon deal with the very situation that you identify and provide adequate and full protection for the consumer and full transparency .
Let me also say that I fully agree with you that consumer confidence is best enhanced by the provision of full information .
Transparency is hugely important in this regard and any apprehension among consumers that some information is being kept from them does enormous damage to consumer confidence .
I am acutely aware of this issue and therefore I fully agree with the import of your question .
Madam President , Commissioner .
Food safety , product safety - I should like to dwell on this aspect .
We know that meat production begins in the stall .
The talk at present is of a total declaration of feedingstuffs .
We have also seen that the feedingstuffs industry has gone straight on to the defensive because they say that what is being asked of them here is unrealistic .
My question is this : how can we protect our farmers as producers if , in the final analysis , they do not know what they are feeding their animals and are then held liable ?
You ask how we can best protect our farmers as producers when they do not know what it is that they are feeding their animals .
There is a body of legislation in place that deals with animal feed and in the White Paper this issue is also addressed .
There are legislative provisions in the annex to the document which indicate the Commission ' s intentions in relation to animal feed .
Mr President , I too would like to thank the Commissioner for this important directive , which , as he himself says , is intended to restore consumer confidence .
The Commissioner is bound to be aware of the fact that Belgian public opinion has taken quite a knock and consumer confidence has fallen in the wake of the dioxin crisis .
So much so , in fact , that a committee of inquiry was set up in the Belgian Parliament at the time of the crisis .
I would like to ask the Commissioner a specific question about the rapid alert system .
The said committee of inquiry accused the Belgian government , the authorities responsible that is , of being too slow to implement the system .
This met with the response that the rapid alert system procedures are not very user-friendly , nor is it very clear as to when exactly the alarm has to be raised .
Is the Commissioner able to provide assurances that these new proposals will overcome this problem ?
You are perfectly correct in what you say about the provision of information by the Belgian authorities in respect of the dioxin issue .
There was quite a considerable delay at that time which was a matter of concern to everybody , not only the Commission , but obviously Parliament as well .
It was of such concern to the Commission that proceedings were instituted by the Commission against Belgium in the Court of Justice .
Perhaps I might continue with the other aspect of my presentation to Parliament this afternoon , which deals with the proposal for the introduction of BSE tests , and I have pleasure in presenting this to Parliament this afternoon .
I have announced on several occasions that I consider the new rapid post-mortem tests to be one of the most important tools in our efforts to control BSE .
The Commission ' s services have worked on a proposal to introduce these tests in BSE monitoring throughout the Community since September last year .
Currently we have three different tests which have been found to give excellent results when used to test animals with clinical signs of disease after their death .
The tests offer new opportunities to test a large number of animals on a routine basis .
Since 1998 , the Community has a BSE surveillance programme in place which is based on the examination of animals with clinical symptoms suggestive of BSE .
The Commission now proposes to replace that programme with a new programme where each Member State tests a representative sample of dead-on-farm and casualty-slaughtered cattle in its territory .
Compared with the current monitoring , the sample size will be increased twenty-five to one hundredfold in each Member State depending on the size of the cattle population .
I expect that the proposed new monitoring will provide significantly better information on the incidence of BSE in the Community than we have at present .
I am also happy to be able to tell Parliament that these particular tests will produce a result within 24 hours .
We propose to test a minimum number of 65 000 animals per year in the whole Community , and the testing will start in January 2001 .
The proposed decision does not in itself have implications on the Community budget but that is an issue that will be discussed in the special veterinary committee next week .
I commend these proposals to Parliament which have been put through the Commission this afternoon .
Madam President , Commissioner , it will come as no surprise to you that I am not satisfied .
I have quite a few questions .
Parliament has been calling for the BSE test to be made compulsory since the BSE control committee .
Mr Byrne , if the only reason for this weak Commission proposal is the Member States ' unwillingness to agree , are you prepared to tell the House which Member States refused to agree to a more ambitious proposal ?
In the event that there is not a clear agreement , then of course the appropriate procedures that are laid down have to be complied with , that is to go through the Agriculture Council and so on .
It may very well be that it can happen in a shorter space of time .
One must always bear in mind , however , that a system such as this will require not only legislative provisions to be put in place but the technical details will also have to be arranged .
Tests will have to be available to ensure that the systems that are put in place are monitored and working properly .
All this has to be put in place to ensure that we get the best possible results for the work that has been undertaken and for the expense that is incurred .
So the best possible date that I can predict for all this to happen and the best estimate that I can give for a commencement date having regard to all these factors is January 2001 .
But if Member States are in a position to do that earlier , so be it and so much the better .
Mr President , Commissioner , you have already partially answered the first question on samples .
I have a second question for you .
My second point , Commissioner , regards application in 2001 .
I feel it is necessary , in addition , to include the elimination of the emergency slaughter of diseased animals , so that only actual casualties are subject to emergency slaughter .
Control would then be much tighter in the production sector , thus benefiting the consumer .
I fully agree that there is a concern relating to the high-risk offals and that is why I will be bringing forward proposals relating to the removal of SRMs .
We know that there is a proposal there already and that will now be fast-tracked .
I am hoping that this issue will be dealt with by the Agriculture Council in or about June , which will meet the concerns that are raised by the question .
Commissioner , we are particularly concerned because the decision that has been taken does not appear to be an adequate proper response to the anxiety of the consumers .
You have just said that public health takes priority over employment and economic considerations .
Do you not think that , in this instance , considerations of the costs of vaccines and money have taken precedence over consumer interests ?
This particular proposal is targeted on , as you say , sick animals and animals that have been slaughtered as a result of emergency procedures , but it is not exclusively targeted on those .
The reason why it is targeted on those animals is because that is where we are likely to get the best and most accurate information .
In addition , however , it must be borne in mind that there are proposals relating to the removal of SRMs , which add another layer of security for the consumer .
Moreover you are aware of the proposals that are in existence relating to the control of animal feed containing meat and bonemeal .
So all these factors must be looked at together .
It is not just one proposal that we are putting forward to you this afternoon as being the only answer to the protection of consumers in respect of the consumption of beef .
There is a multi-layered response , there are many issues involved , and I have indicated a number of them to you this afternoon .
I wish to assure you that there is concern to ensure the maximum protection of consumers in respect of the consumption of all food , including beef .
Mr President , Commissioner .
I share all the concerns expressed by previous speakers .
As a producer , it is in my interest to restore consumer confidence in the production of cattle and sheep and related products .
My question to you , Commissioner , is this : so far , thank God , Austria has not had a single case of BSE .
Will these tests also be carried out in Austria ?
Yes , these tests will be carried out in every Member State , including Austria .
Only by carrying out these tests in all Member States can we have the kind of security that we believe is necessary .
You , Mr Whitehead , are particularly familiar with these .
I expect and hope that the proposals will receive a welcome at the SVC and there will not be a need for the proposals to then go forward to the Agriculture Council .
But I regret I am not in a position to read the mind of the SVC .
That has tended to concentrate minds very considerably .
I have just a minor question to add to what Mr Daul and Mrs Lienemann have already said . What is to be done ?
Would it not be sensible also to eliminate the animals taken to the abattoir at the last minute , which are often likely to be infected ?
Surely it is better to take them out of the food chain ?
My understanding is that those animals are normally taken out of the food chain .
My question to Mr Byrne relates to the recent report of the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin on the incidence of BSE in France .
This was a report which related to a period during 1999 , but which came to the European Parliament and to MEPs not very long ago .
The findings of the report make extremely alarming reading .
This must be an issue of great concern to the Commissioner .
I raised this with the French Agriculture Minister , Mr Glavany , when he came to Brussels last week .
He rejected out of hand the conclusions of the Food and Veterinary Office report and the findings of the inspectors .
I would like to know what the Commission is doing about this .
Could I therefore ask Mr Byrne what he is doing about this report ?
This particular report came as the result of an inspection which took place in June last year .
Following on from that , the report had to be written and evaluated and then discussed with the French authorities .
That was done into the Autumn and I have been assured that the issues that were drawn to the attention of the French authorities during that exercise have been addressed substantially in the responses by the French authorities .
I was at a seminar in Dublin as recently as last weekend discussing these issues with the chief veterinary officers of the European Union and with the Food and Veterinary Office .
I am satisfied that the French authorities have taken action .
Aeroplane " hushkits
The next item is the joint debate on two oral questions to the Commission by the following Members :
Mr Hatzidakis , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , on hushkitted aircraft ( B5-0018 / 2000 ) ;
Mrs Jackson , on behalf of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy , on the hushkit issue ( B5-0020 / 2000 ) .
Mr President , I look forward with great interest to the Commissioner ' s reply to this debate .
We believe that what the Commissioner is going to say is that the part relating to third countries , which should come into force from 2002 , will not come into force and will in fact be suspended .
Europeans should surely be able to legislate as they wish to protect the population of Europe , and give them the highest standards possible of noise protection .
This is , of course , a difficult issue to discuss sensibly in a United States election year .
We can understand that American politicians have little room for manoeuvre .
The first compromise put forward a little time ago seemed to many in the Parliament to be much too shaky .
In effect the European Union would have suspended the whole regulation , and then the United States would have suspended its complaint to ICAO and negotiations would have gone forward .
Or would they ?
The danger , it seemed to us , was that the European Union would have been left with absolutely nothing .
As is clear , the regulation was adopted in order to protect the environment and the public .
At the same time , however , it seems that the regulation affects the interests of the American aircraft industry .
To show good faith , the Council and Parliament postponed the regulation ' s entry into force by one year .
As we know , Mrs de Palacio was authorised by the Council of Ministers to negotiate with the US .
I have no doubt that aside from being lengthy , those talks were also difficult .
However , as they themselves would say , they must understand that ' it takes two to tango ' .
Our position , then , is as follows :
firstly , our strategy must aim for global agreement on much stricter standards on aircraft noise ;
secondly , if there is no agreement , then it is clear that the European Union will have to act unilaterally ;
thirdly , we consider that the position of the United States , calling for withdrawal of the regulation or indefinite suspension of its implementation , is totally unacceptable ;
fourthly , we welcome the progress made within the Committee on Aviation Environment Protection towards gradually phasing out any noisy aircraft in circulation today ;
and sixthly , we are prepared to review Regulation ( EC ) No 925 / 99 on aircraft registered in third countries provided , however , that in the interim agreement is reached within the ICAO on new standards .
If good faith prevails , that agreement can become a reality .
Meanwhile , however , there is no reason to suspend the regulation for third-country aircraft , for the very simple reason that the regulation concerning such aircraft only enters into force in 2002 .
In that sense I cannot understand the insistence of the US , who continually talk about the suspension of our own regulation .
And , of course , we believe the US ought to withdraw their petition to the ICAO under Article 84 of the Chicago Convention , because that kind of action blows the spirit of cooperation sky-high .
Mr President , I want to conclude with two respective observations .
The first is this : it must be made clear who is negotiating on the US side .
We know who our negotiator is , it is Mrs de Palacio , and to date she has proved a very good negotiator .
As for the other side , it is not clear who the negotiator is .
This is preventing us from having a stable position from the US , and is also thwarting our own efforts .
The second observation is this : the US must understand that the European Parliament is no longer the body it used to be , in previous decades .
It is now a powerful body .
So they must understand that besides the Council , they must also talk to Parliament and take its views very seriously , because without Parliament there can be no progress .
So if they want us to help them , they must first help us , they must first contribute towards progress by showing goodwill .
With these thoughts , therefore , I would like to ask the Commissioner and the Council what their positions are .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , one thing is crystal clear : on 4 May , the ' Hushkits ' regulation enters into force in the European Union .
That is all we know for sure .
From then on we will have to see how we can carry on negotiating with the United States .
This regulation has no further intention , but I believe we need to be more ambitious .
The current standards , as Mr Blokland has reminded us , date from 1978 .
Since then , world aeronautical technology has made great advances .
Today , the noise levels of current aircraft can sometimes be 20 , 40 or even 50 times lower than those of older aircraft .
It is therefore a question of achieving new noise levels as international standards within the ICAO .
In this respect , we need to cooperate with the Americans who , after all , are our friends and allies .
What can we negotiate ?
We can negotiate two things :
Ladies and gentlemen , Mr Hatzidakis asked me who we are negotiating with and Mrs Jackson reminded us of the meeting they have had with Mr Slater , the Secretary of State for Transport .
I have negotiated with many people from the United States administration .
I have kept you informed promptly and with complete transparency throughout all this time .
I am not going to expand on what the stages have been , since you are perfectly familiar with them .
The last took place on Monday , with Mr Slater .
Agreement could conceivably be reached on the basic ideas which I presented to him , and we will continue to work on it .
Therefore , Mrs Jackson , what the Financial Times said is not true at all .
I hope that , between us all , we can reach this agreement .
Mr President , I should like to have begun my intervention with the title of a play by Shakespeare : ' Much ado about nothing ' , but unfortunately it would be totally unsuitable .
There is much ado about a great deal .
What we are discussing today has very little to do with legislation on transport or the environment ; on the contrary , we are legislating to protect people .
Every scientist in the world , including the USA , has established over recent years that noise makes people ill .
Noise makes people ill and therefore not only injures and stresses people themselves , it also damages the community as a whole , i.e. the national economy .
That is something which many of us here wish to bear in mind , which is why we tabled this legislation .
That is the only reason .
That is what we wish to bear in mind , irrespective of the fact that , otherwise , we are , of course , always happy to integrate transport policy into other policy areas and environmental policy into transport .
The legislation is in force , as everyone has said here today and , commendably , the Commissioner too has again made that quite clear .
The last few times I have listened to you , Mrs de Palacio , I was most impressed by the very clear , very logical and very decisive manner in which you conveyed that .
I welcome that and I congratulate you .
The legislation is in force and I therefore wonder what the Council of transport ministers discussed yesterday .
Basically , it has nothing to discuss , unless it wants to submit new legislation to us , which is obviously not the case .
That is the part which is due to enter into force in April 2002 .
We must be clear and united on where we want to go and what the ultimate goal is .
I am not haggling over six months , but I do want clear objectives and we must have a clear timetable .
Once we have all this , then I should like to see it go through the general assembly of the International Civil Aviation Authority , the ICAO , in September .
If it goes through in September of next year , then we still have enough time to suspend the regulation .
I am not prepared to consider a suspension without the conditions which I have just formulated .
I think that is a particularly sorry state of affairs .
We must bring the new standard into force as soon as possible . It is in our interests to do so , but what we are lacking is commitment on the part of the Americans .
That much is clear .
They have not given us their commitment , that is what makes us so suspicious .
They have given it to us so often . On so many occasions they have half committed themselves and then backed off again , and so on and so forth .
As far as I am concerned it is clear that the suspicion derives from the Americans ' lack of willingness to commit themselves to something that is inevitable .
Only when they actually sign on the dotted line to this effect will we in the Union be able to help to move the situation on .
We should not turn things round .
Yesterday we had a talk with the American Minister for Transport .
But there is a huge amount of suspicion on their side too .
And so I think that it is time for a clear signal ; but it must come from them in the first instance .
What we need to hear from them is that they want to find a solution , not behind closed doors somewhere , but officially , on paper .
It is not acceptable for them to ask us to defer our own regulations .
Their future commitment depends on whether or not we are willing to defer .
The complaint they have filed with the ICAO is in fact uncalled-for blackmail . I believe they should withdraw it .
Mr Hatzidakis has said that it should be withdrawn and you have said that we should defer .
I have tabled an amendment to the effect that they should definitely withdraw the complaint .
I think we need to word what we currently have on paper a little more strongly .
What is worthy of admiration , in my view , Commissioner , is that you are presently taking the same line as Parliament and , it would seem , the Council .
That being the case , I think our position is stronger than that of the Americans at the moment , and we must do all we can to keep things that way as far as possible .
Mr President , in my opinion , Commissioner Palacio is completely right to uphold the European position against the United States .
This is not the first time that our positions , laws and regulations have differed from those of the United States . Consider the example of genetically modified organisms .
If we want to maintain our sovereignty , we must do so in every area , including this one .
It does not matter whether this is achieved through the use of modified afterburners or other types of engine mufflers .
What is important is that the limits which have been set to protect our communities are respected and that their observance is enforced by the competent bodies .
No other course would be possible , because there is no legislative process which is fast enough to allow further changes to be made in May .
I wonder if we should abolish this regulation as far as third country aircraft are concerned .
It has not even entered into force .
It is on the statute books but will not enter into force until May 2002 .
Why should we abolish it ?
I think that we should begin with a legislative procedure at the end of the year .
Once agreement has been reached on global standards in the ICAO working parties , we can start to adopt these global standards in our regulation insofar as it relates to third country aeroplanes for the year 2002 .
This was also what my fellow member was asking .
We should not begin the legislative procedure under the slogan " suspend " but under the slogan " adaptation to new , jointly-agreed standards " .
In this respect I think that Mr Slater should put his money where his mouth is , as we say in Hamburg .
On that basis , Madam Vice-President , you continue to have our full support .
We admire you , because the Council has gone on the attack time and again , saying you should draw up a legislative proposal right away and give in to the Americans .
You rightly said , the Americans are our friends but we will not be blackmailed when it comes to our own environmental protection .
Stand by your guns , Madam Vice-President !
If the Americans approach us on this matter , we are perfectly able in principle to start the legislative process the day after tomorrow .
But I would advise that we wait for the first working results from the ICAO working party on noise protection regulations .
Then we can start on a sound legislative process in the interests of all our citizens , because we want global standards which are more stringent that those we have had in the past .
But having said that , it is important to get each trade dispute in proportion .
Every one of us would want to welcome the small indication of progress that comes after the meetings with Secretary of State Slater and Ambassador Morningstar .
I say this knowing full well the massive pressures there are upon Congress in an election year .
The Commissioner and others have outlined the basis of possible discussions .
I will not go through all those again , but just say that there is a need not only for a timetable to agree stringent noise standards but also to agree a timetable in which they should be implemented .
Mrs Roth-Berendt has mentioned a target with which I will concur .
I want to make one other brief point , because this dispute highlights the need for earlier and more forthright discussions about the many issues over which there are disagreements .
We need to learn lessons on both sides but I very much hope that even at this late stage there can be some sort of resolution .
The hushkits issue is also widely seen as a first case of how aviation issues will be dealt with in the future by the new Parliament and the new Commission .
It is very clear that ICAO standards need to be seen as a floor , not as a ceiling .
It should be quite possible and right to go beyond them .
This is a critical case because it is about how we face hard decisions about how to begin to make a deeply unsustainable industry a little less damaging .
It is about how we put into practice the Treaty of Amsterdam on integrating sustainability concerns into all policy areas , even the very difficult ones .
I wonder if we can use this conflict and these negotiations with the US to enter into a broader discussion about a proactive global environmental policy on air transport more generally .
Hushkits are important but noise pollution is only one aspect of the environmental damage from the airline industry .
It is the fastest growing source of greenhouse gas emissions and we know that it is deeply unsustainable .
We need to be looking towards a new policy architecture to deal with all these questions .
Mr President , I have problems with the genesis of Regulation 925 of 1999 to which the resolution before us refers .
It was voted through the last Parliament without any debate .
It is contrary to the principle of non-discrimination .
In whose interest was it to depart in this piece of fast-track legislation from tried-and-tested procedures and the practice of using objective performance criteria for environmental standards ?
This legislation rolls out the proposal made by Airbus at an Airbus-hosted meeting in Toulouse on 29 and 30 September and 1 October 1997 , effectively commercially sponsored legislation .
Yes , Mr President , noise pollution affects 20 % of our population , and 0.01 % comes from aircraft .
I fully support the necessary standards to protect the health and quality of life for our citizens .
The strictest possible criteria to reduce noise and emissions from aircraft engines can only be achieved however by using performance criteria and not design criteria which is commercially sponsored and fast-track in anti-competitive legislation .
Environmental legislation based on design criteria , I put it to you colleagues , is without precedent , and for good reason .
I would ask with respect that the Commissioner , in the interests of probity , satisfy herself fully as to the genesis of this regulation in question to ensure the impact of its roll-out on the aviation industry world-wide .
I do not care whether it is America , Europe , China or Mars - world-wide is equitable .
Above all , it should serve as well as possible the important environmental objectives it purports to achieve .
I fully support the objective of the regulation and we must agree on a timetable to implement noise standards , but it must be one based on objective performance criteria and not design criteria .
The integrity of this House demands detailed answers to questions which raise major doubts about aspects of a regulation upon which the motion before us is based and on which we will be asked to vote tomorrow .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I think Mrs Doyle cannot have examined the genesis of the actual situation , as we have debated this issue on several occasions in this House .
I cannot imagine , Madame Doyle , that the Council was unanimous and this House almost unanimous in taking a decision based solely on the Airbus defence .
No , there are thousands of residents living in the vicinity of airports who suffer considerable noise pollution .
Obviously , this regulation offers them the best protection as things stand at present under current international legislation .
American opinion will therefore only be shifted significantly in turn if we first make it known in our capacity as Europeans .
My regret is that this year ' s postponement may have been seen by our partners as indicative of weakness in our position .
Let me tell you , then , Mrs de Palacio , Mr Coelho , that we want to see firm negotiation .
There are no grounds for suspending regulations .
We might at best revise them , but we could do so only in one instance : if an international agreement makes it possible to improve the situation and to draw up an overall framework agreement .
An overall framework does not mean evading the issue , as I began to doubt upon hearing the views of the Council .
Mr President , Commissioner , as you know , I live in Bilbao , a city in the Basque country which , like other European cities , is very densely populated .
Our airport is very close to housing and , like 20 % of Europe ' s citizens , we suffer levels of noise from aircraft which health experts consider to be unacceptable .
I understand that we must not be inflexible . We must offer an opportunity for dialogue and understanding , but in order for this to happen , the United States must agree to adopt certain approaches .
At the next assembly of the ICAO , the United States must commit itself to the adoption of a new and more restrictive standard for aircraft noise , as well as to withdrawing its complaints and coercive measures .
Only under these circumstances could we accept a delay in our regulation for third countries .
Mr President , the British delegate has just spoken using Mr Bowe ' s speaking time .
I think , Mr Blokland , you could have done that without actually announcing it to Parliament , but never mind .
Mr President , like most of the other speakers here , I see absolutely no reason at all for any kind of immediate suspension , or urgent suspension , of the hushkit regulations .
There are regulations , we put them in place .
I was here at the first reading in the Parliament in Strasbourg .
There were not very many of us here , a lot fewer than there are today , when we introduced these regulations in the first instance .
They are good regulations . There are going to be useful regulations and they are going to bring positive benefit to the people of Europe .
That does not mean though that you should not negotiate .
I was fortunate to have an opportunity to talk with Under-Secretary Slater yesterday along with a number of my other colleagues .
They seem to be reasonable people who would be willing to talk reasonably with you about a better , long-term solution .
We know there are better long-term solutions because we know our regulation applies only in Europe .
Although it may have some spillover effect in the not too far distant future to third countries , we are not having a world-wide effect .
Your objective , Madame Palacio , is to get that world-wide effect .
Your objective is to make absolutely sure that whatever agreement you come up with with the Americans secures new controls on aircraft noise world-wide out of ICAO in a clear timescale .
It is not just a question of agreeing to the controls and the levels but also a timetable for implementation that makes us happy and satisfied in this Parliament .
That is the mandate we are giving you here today . That is what we would like to see you come back with at some time in the future .
In the meantime though , enforce and implement the regulations as we expect them to be enforced and implemented .
Tell the Americans that if they want to talk in an atmosphere of confidence and trust and goodwill , the first thing they can do is to suspend their Article 84 complaint in ICAO .
They do not have to withdraw it , they do not have to take it away , they just have to make sure it does not go on the agenda of the next meeting .
Suggest that to them , Madame Palacio .
Start the negotiations and then come back to us with a reasonable compromise .
Mr President , first of all I wish to thank all of you for your speeches and especially the Portuguese Minister for Transport , the President-in-Office of the Council .
Yesterday we discussed this matter and I received the full support of the Council , for which I would like to publicly express my gratitude .
Ladies and gentlemen , it should be made abundantly clear that our ambition must not be to conform to the ' Hushkits ' Regulation , to the regulation on silencers .
The regulation on silencers means nothing more than implementing the noise levels of 1978 and we are in the year 2000 .
We must go further .
We must reach an agreement within the ICAO , and to achieve this , the support and cooperation of the United States is essential .
The United States should not be the only country with which we cooperate , but we certainly must cooperate with the United States and with the United States in particular .
We must move beyond what has been reactive behaviour , that is to say , behaviour that has worked on the action-reaction principle , and move towards an approach which is ambitious and which looks to the future .
With regard to the United States , we must try to find a form of cooperation that goes much further than current cooperation within the ICAO .
Clearly , the tensions and confrontations involving the ' Hushkits ' issue hinder this type of action .
We must therefore try to reach an agreement which will allow us to overcome the current situation of conflict .
I wish to make it very clear that the regulation on silencers comes into force on 4 May for European airline companies .
There is nothing more to say about this .
However , the United States have not wanted to enter into this type of discussion .
The regulation comes into force for European airlines on 4 May .
That is all .
Thank you very much , Mr President .
I would like to thank you once again for your support and I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council on Transport and the Council on Transport as a whole for the answer they gave me yesterday .
I have received one motion for resolution from the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy pursuant to Rule 42 ( 5 ) of the Rules of Procedure .
That concludes the joint debate .
The vote will be taken tomorrow .
Mediterranean policy
The next item is the joint debate on twelve oral questions on Mediterranean policy by the following Members :
Napoletano , Sakellariou , Obiols i Germ , Nar , on behalf of the PSE Group , to the Council ( B5-0015 / 2000 ) ;
Napoletano , Sakellariou , Obiols i Germ , Nar , on behalf of the PSE Group , to the Commission ( B5-0016 / 2000 ) ;
Rutelli , on behalf of the ELDR Group , to the Council ( B5-0202 / 2000 ) ;
Rutelli , on behalf of the ELDR Group , to the Commission ( B5-0203 / 2000 ) ;
Morgantini , on behalf of the GUE / NGL Group , to the Council ( B5-0204 / 2000 ) ;
Morgantini , on behalf of the GUE / NGL Group , to the Commission ( B5-0205 / 2000 ) ;
Queir , Muscardini , on behalf of the UEN Group , to the Council ( B5-0210 / 2000 ) ;
Queir , Muscardini , on behalf of the UEN Group , to the Commission ( B5-0211 / 2000 ) ;
Fiori , on behalf of the PPE / DE Group , to the Council ( B5-0212 / 2000 ) ;
Fiori , on behalf of the PPE / DE Group , to the Commission ( B5-0213 / 2000 ) ;
Bautista Ojeda , on behalf of the Verts / ALE Group , to the Council ( B5-0214 / 2000 ) ;
Bautista Ojeda , on behalf of the Verts / ALE Group , to the Commission ( B5-0215 / 2000 ) .
It is obvious to all of us that the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership has to complement the European policy for the Mediterranean Basin .
Mr President , our group has joined with other groups to hold a debate on Mediterranean policy , and I cannot deny that this initiative stems from a two-fold concern .
The first is a general consideration .
This is a general political concern .
We feel that Mediterranean policy needs to be thoroughly analysed and relaunched , on a par with enlargement , or perhaps more so than this , seeing that the enlargement strategy is now safely underway .
The second point is more specific .
In our view , Barcelona defined the major points of this policy , but , with the passage of time , these have been lost from sight .
This means that the pillars which were the basis for Barcelona must be adopted and perhaps even reinforced .
And this is a weak point .
We therefore welcome the major step taken by Parliament in deciding , through the Presidents of the Groups , to convene the Interparliamentary Forum .
We agree to support the civil forum .
The political signal which we must all send out together and the instruments which are decided upon must be capable of successfully relaunching this policy and restoring its status .
I hope I have been clear . We feel very strongly about this issue .
However , the agenda must tackle the central issues and not skirt around them , as it currently threatens to do .
We are also concerned at the total lack of interest shown by the Commission in reopening the debate .
And yet much remains to be done in order to relaunch the three cooperation chapters decided upon in Barcelona .
Political dialogue must be structured and take the form of regular consultations .
There is now no reason to exclude Libya from the debate , and it should therefore take part in the next Euro-Mediterranean Conference .
With regard to economic and financial cooperation , the Commission has the duty to relaunch negotiations for the signing of trade contracts which are socially sustainable .
This is extremely important , for the mutual benefits are very great .
At the same time , however , I would stress that the bilateral approach hitherto adopted by the Commission does not seem adequate to meet the numerous challenges presented by the Mediterranean .
Economic cooperation must include multilateral / bilateral approaches facilitating the promotion of trade among Mediterranean countries and south-south trade .
This multilateral approach must also be mirrored in the fields of cultural and social cooperation .
In this sense , it is essential , in addition to being the Union ' s responsibility , to support democratic organisations from the civil society of Mediterranean countries and parliamentary dialogue modelled on the Euro-Mediterranean Forum .
Mr President , Commissioner , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , the need to create a Euro-Mediterranean area of peace , economic justice , citizenship and stability is common to both sides of the Mediterranean .
Mr President , the development of the Mediterranean requires , first and foremost , political strategies which do not allow bureaucracy to take over and stifle the whole process .
Europe stands for the noble values of peace , freedom and social development , values which have to be constantly defended for the very reason that they were won at a high price .
Our defensive strategy of enclosing ourselves in a single market and barricading ourselves in will ultimately prove to be a losing one .
We cannot shirk the challenges thrown up by globalisation , but have to learn how to approach and exploit them .
The Mediterranean is still the greatest benchmark of Europe ' s capacity to exert influence beyond its borders .
The present issue consists in developing a Mediterranean policy in a Union which is skewed towards the north-east and is focusing less and less on the Mediterranean Basin in the South .
The need for a different , more efficient Mediterranean policy for the developing countries in the Basin cannot be disregarded .
Too many unnecessary interventions have been made , while the need remains for aqueducts , schools and the means for young graduates to build a life for themselves .
Therefore , Mr President , much work still remains to be done .
Mr President , this is a decisive moment for the future of the European Union .
We cannot underestimate the value of the Mediterranean region : it must be a privileged partner in our policies , an important border on which we must focus our attention .
Despite the progress made at bilateral and multilateral levels , the Charter for Stability and Security is still awaiting completion .
The Partnership is still far from achieving its objectives .
The forging of multilateral relations has not led to sustained expansion , and the cultural , social and human partnership is highly inadequate .
By what means is the Commission going to make the MEDA programme more efficient ?
What are the actions it is going to undertake to reduce income discrepancies and to encourage the creation of infrastructures and the reviewing and updating of trade agreements ?
What are the specific actions that the Commission intends to adopt to create a genuine cultural , social and human partnership ?
Let us go right back to Barcelona and return to a global tack , fostering the priorities that have been ignored and promoting the development of civil forums , to encourage the active participation of civil society .
Our group has faith in the Mediterranean , and wants the European Union to accord to it the strategic , economic and political importance it once had .
Mr President , enlargement is essential .
It is genuinely important for the future of the European Union , as it is the only way to prevent Europe becoming an island of prosperity surrounded by poverty .
Mr President , on behalf of my colleague , Chris Patten , I have the following comments .
The text of the Charter for Peace and Stability should be agreed at the meeting in mid-November .
It should be as meaningful and far-reaching as possible .
I should like to see regular security and stability discussions open to all partners willing to participate .
In addition , we should develop cooperation on drugs , terrorism , migration , good governance and conflict prevention , at least with the Maghreb countries .
I also want to see an enhanced human rights dimension in the partnership .
We should have a frank and open dialogue on the policies needed by partner governments to improve the situation in this respect .
We shall use MEDA and the specific MEDA democracy programme to support positive actions , particularly by NGOs , to promote respect for human rights and democratic freedoms in the region .
Programmes financed by MEDA are in place to support industrial modernisation , structural adjustment , development of the private sector , training and promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises .
All programmes contain conditionalities ensuring that their social impact is taken into account .
I intend to ensure an even tighter focus on priorities in our financial cooperation in the future , particularly by concentrating on sectoral adjustment facilities .
These will enable us to focus on the key objectives of the partnership and will also improve the disbursement rate on MEDA .
The implementation of MEDA has been subject to criticism , some justified , some not .
It is a young programme with specific objectives linked to the implementation of free trade with the partners .
Often the final beneficiaries are not the partner governments .
This has , in itself , increased the complexity of implementation .
The Commission has put forward a proposal to amend the MEDA regulation to ensure a more strategic approach to programming , better coordination with other donors , including the Member States , and streamlining of procedures .
The proposal is still under discussion in the Council , and I fear , that far from supporting these objectives , the Council may be moving in the direction of making the procedure even heavier .
I count on the Parliament to support our efforts .
For my part , I shall also ensure that internal Commission procedures are reformed in a way to speed up delivery .
Investment is a major issue which was addressed at the important conference held in Lisbon on 29 February and 1 March .
That conference showed that the key to increasing the regions ' attractiveness to investors is for the partners to have flourishing , open , competitive economies with a secure and predictable legal and administrative environment .
We shall use MEDA to support the partners ' efforts in this respect .
Regional cooperation to ensure that the region presents a unified market is also vital .
Sub-regional free trade areas should be supported as a step towards the global objective .
Regional infrastructure is essential to economic development .
MEDA supports , among other things , the interconnection of infrastructure as regards energy , transport and new technology .
Investments in these areas are primarily supported by loans from the European Investment Bank as well as other donors .
I shall continue to ensure that the right mix of funding is used to ensure that public and private actors can play their appropriate part .
In addition , we are considering the introduction of a regional cooperation programme which could focus on processing and conservation , quality standards and animal health .
Support for civil society is key to the development of the human dimension of the partnership .
I shall ensure that civil society is supported but as far as the old decentralised cooperation programmes are concerned , I shall not repeat the mistakes of the past regarding financial management and administration .
NGOs can benefit from a number of programmes .
The SMART Programme on the environment , the Cultural Heritage Programme , the EUROMED Youth Programme and MEDA Democracy , for example .
I will consider what more we can do while respecting the need for sound financial management .
For some reason or other , these agreements have not been implemented .
From reading Parliament ' s joint motion for a resolution , which we will probably approve tomorrow , we can certainly observe specific proposals which we can use as a starting point .
Mr President , in November , five years will have passed since the signing of the Barcelona Declaration .
The moment has therefore arrived to make an assessment of the Euro-Mediterranean policy , an assessment of the results achieved and also of this policy ' s delays and shortcomings .
In this respect , this debate and the motions for resolutions tabled by the Groups in this Parliament are very appropriate initiatives .
This assessment certainly includes some positive aspects .
On the one hand - and this is no small thing - the process has continued , despite the negative factors that have affected the Middle East peace process .
The summits and meetings have always been held with the presence of all the countries involved , including Syria , Lebanon and Israel .
Secondly , although progress has been slow , we have seen the signing , ratification and implementation of a series of association agreements .
Thirdly , we have been developing a permanent routine for intergovernmental cooperation and we have been implementing the different financial aid projects of the MEDA programme .
However , these results cannot lead us to ignore the delays and shortcomings which , in part , have frustrated the hopes and expectations raised at the first Euro-Mediterranean Conference of November 1995 .
Firstly , there has been no decisive political thrust when we really needed it .
Strictly speaking , it could be said that , in political terms , Mediterranean policy should today be the main priority of European Union foreign policy .
On the other hand , there is no certainty whatsoever when it comes to the future of the Mediterranean .
Secondly , I believe that , as a result of this lack of political direction , the economic and financial dimension has experienced obstacles and delays .
This is an illustration of what could be described as the " strategic blindness " of the European system as a whole .
Thank you very much , Mr Obiols .
I have allowed you the extra minute since you are chairman of the Maghreb delegation .
On the other hand , we know that certain obstacles , basically political ones , have hindered its correct application .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , in Barcelona we signed with due formality the Charter for the Mediterranean which we had ensured would focus on the rule of law and human rights .
Let me take Tunisia as an example , one of the first countries with which we signed a partnership agreement . The situation of the rule of law and human rights in this country is scandalous .
I am bringing up these subjects because I believe we must not cease to remind the countries of the Mediterranean of their responsibilities as regards the rule of law and human rights .
It is not enough to achieve good results in agriculture or anything else .
Respect for human rights must take precedence in our policy , and that is not the case at present .
Mr President , the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership launched in 1995 has broken down . It is official .
The relaunch of this policy announced by the forthcoming French presidency of the European Union bodes well , since the countries in this region have to face extensive and urgent challenges .
In order to respond effectively to these , it is crucial that the interests of the peoples around this central sea are truly taken into consideration , and that the people participate actively in the partnership .
Let me say from the outset that the time has come to change the course of Euro-Mediterranean policy .
There are considerable infrastructure needs , not to mention environmental challenges .
The effect of this widening gap can only be to increasingly foster the most violent forms of nationalism , fundamentalism and war .
Indeed , the weight of foreign debt , the drop in the prices of raw materials and structural adjustment plans have already forced these countries to adopt swingeing austerity programmes and have wrecked their capacity for development .
The prospect of a free trade area , a sort of regional MAI , is liable to dangerously exacerbate these power struggles .
Studies show that two thirds of Tunisian industry would not survive the opening of frontiers .
There are , however , advantages to establishing things from scratch .
Citizens , NGOs and trade unions are committed on a day-to-day basis to supporting solidarity between peoples and to putting many local cooperation projects into practice .
The Euro-Mediterranean process thus calls for a pooling of resources which should be advantageous to all concerned in moving towards a common area of prosperity , which was the objective set in Barcelona .
There are many possible ways out of the dogma of free trade that was challenged in Seattle .
It is more than time to wipe out the debt of the countries of the South , and to engage in technology transfer and cooperation in the areas of training between public services .
The credibility of European foreign policy is at stake here .
Mr President , while Parliament is getting bogged down with details , here we are , forced to deal with one of the key areas of European concern , the Mediterranean , in a great rush .
Everything goes to show that , in fact , in this matter we are truly unaware of what is at stake .
This would mean , for example , accepting countries such as Morocco , Tunisia or Algeria into the Union as Member States in their own right .
Our nations will remain great powers in the next century only insofar as they have successfully met the challenge of the Mediterranean partnership .
Episodes such as the Gulf War and the proscription of Libya , and even of Syria from the international arena , in which we were skilfully manipulated by Washington , were just the most recent illustrations .
France may be acting alone , but it is acting for the benefit of Europe as a whole .
Mr President , in principle we must welcome the fact that the Mediterranean area is again being seen more as a partner of the European Union .
I think the inclusion of Libya is crucial .
Libya in particular has a great deal of catching up to do in telecommunications now that the embargo has been lifted .
I visited Libya a month ago and found the people , especially the young , to be open-minded and most interested in Europe .
It was clear from talks with the rector of the university and students that the long-term embargo has left many young people traumatised by a feeling of powerlessness and being distanced from the north .
This will certainly be in the interest of both sides .
What I mean to say is that , in any event , I share the Commission ' s concern and I think the proposal to simplify the procedures is a positive one .
I hope that this Parliament will support it .
In the few seconds allocated to me , I will simply refer to two aspects which I believe should be dealt with urgently in relation to the MEDA programmes .
Firstly , decentralised cooperation and the activities generated by the Barcelona Process between the most active social operators from the non-Community Mediterranean countries and the European Union .
These are projects , which , as well as having intrinsic value , create growth in the social sectors in these countries .
We must put an end to the poor esteem in which they currently hold the Union and we must once again ensure that their expectations and ambitions are supported by the Union .
I believe furthermore that the Commission must have sufficient human and material resources to do so .
The second issue which concerns me is the inclusion of immigration in the regulation .
I am concerned about how this issue will be dealt with in the Mediterranean area .
This debate is also appropriate because this Parliament ' s delegation for relations with the Maghreb countries visited Morocco and Tunisia last week , with a full working agenda .
That is why the different European institutions , Parliament , the Commission and the Council , must make an effort so that these people in the Mediterranean area may improve their situation .
To this end , we must carry out a decisive and courageous policy which will allow us to successfully confront the Euro-Mediterranean challenges which have arisen in this globalised world .
The Mediterranean and its peoples need us .
We cannot leave them to struggle alone .
Let me draw the attention of our fellow Members to these reports which are currently being discussed in committee and which are to be presented before the House in June .
At this juncture , I should like to highlight two important points : firstly , MEDA is a good programme , a young programme , which has to date suffered from inefficiencies in its implementation .
The regulation must be amended and Commission staff must be increased .
We shall have proposals to present to Parliament to this effect in order to ensure better examination of the files .
Next , 90 % of the appropriations are reserved for bilateral cooperation , but only 10 % for regional cooperation , which is of great interest to us .
This must be increased , decentralised cooperation must be stimulated and the participation of civilian societies must be utilised .
Finally , it plans to bring third countries up to par in terms of respect for human rights and , in this regard , in many countries the situation is showing no signs of improvement .
Tunisia , which Daniel Cohn-Bendit has just mentioned , has alone received 10 % of the MEDA appropriations , almost all of which have been paid .
This is something that we must take into account specifically in order to ensure that it is the European Union which is actively directing the projects and that the projects are not just decided according to ...
( The President cut the speaker off )
I think that we can learn something from the concerns expressed on all sides .
It would be impossible to summarise the Minister ' s answer in five lines , because he referred to all the issues but did not answer the key questions .
Secondly , in my opinion , there is a lack of generosity .
The European Union is stuck on free trade , despite free trade zones having negative economic and social consequences in those areas .
It could , on the other hand , be adopting direct , specific and effective measures on issues such as debt or technology transfer , where we see hesitancy and a lack of effectiveness .
The third point is that in my opinion the European Union has no autonomy .
We see this in the Middle East vis--vis the USA and on a broader scale , too .
From Lisbon in 1992 to Cannes in 1995 , and especially in Barcelona that same year , there have always been requests for a strong Euro-Mediterranean Partnership to be established .
The European Union and twelve Mediterranean countries were consequently pleased to adopt the famous Barcelona Declaration in 1995 .
This declaration had particularly great ambitions in economic and financial , political and security , social , cultural and human terms .
Generally , moreover , the technical problems , the political problems , the limited direct investment , the inordinate debt of our partners are plain for all to see and to deplore .
The results of all this are disastrous : the disillusionment of our partners , inadequate economic development , illegal immigration into Europe and a general upturn in fundamentalism .
Indeed we do not have any alternative , and I wish , this evening , to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for all the important and relevant information he has given us .
As a Socialist , I therefore support the substance of the proposals included in our joint resolution .
Presidents all , Commissioner , on the occasion of this debate I should like to highlight the importance and the impact of the Pope ' s visit to the Holy Land .
Whatever our beliefs or religious convictions , we are forced to acknowledge that John Paul II ' s message is a major contribution to progress towards peace in the region .
The Holy Father shows us that the religious aspect of the conflicts cannot be disregarded , and that dialogue between religions is just as much a factor in stability as political dialogue .
This visit has been an exceptional demonstration of the understanding that can be achieved between all parties .
My feeling , on the occasion of this debate , is that it is worth paying tribute to the actions of this great man of peace , this indefatigable pilgrim .
Firstly , with regard to regional cooperation - and the presidency has just answered this in part - the Union bases its Mediterranean policy on the Barcelona Process .
This approach is supposed to be global and regional and treats the Mediterranean Basin as a regional entity .
It is reasonable to think that cooperation between the Mediterranean States should be much stronger .
The second question concerns the role of the European Parliament , and it must be noted that , at present , it is too limited .
So , as I pointed out , the Union ' s Mediterranean policy is supposed to be global .
The European Parliament is , in fact , only consulted on the occasion of bilateral agreements .
It would be necessary either to reconcile the European Parliament with the Forum , along the lines of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly , or to organise the more active and regular participation of the European Parliament in ministerial meetings .
Mr President , the Union ' s Mediterranean policy must not only gain shape , but also gain substance .
It should be filled with content and not emptied . It is essential that we strengthen political , economic and social ties and continue to move forward .
We now have an association agreement with Morocco , in force since 2 March , which makes that country a privileged partner .
However , there can be no close cooperation with Morocco without dealing with an activity - fishing - on which the economies of many European regions depend .
I would like to mention the fisheries agreement between the European Community and Morocco , which expired on 30 November last year .
Well , four months later , we are in a vacuum .
We still have no date for a start to negotiations .
Not to renew that agreement would be a backwards step in our Mediterranean policy , because if that policy is to be more than empty rhetoric , we must make progress in specific cases .
Mediterranean policy takes its name from the sea where , for centuries , European and North African fishermen have fished together .
The Commission should fulfil its duty and ensure that these negotiations finally begin .
As has been said , a delegation from this Parliament has just visited Morocco and Tunisia .
Human rights , the Western Sahara , fishing , agriculture , investment , MEDA and emigration were discussed by MEPs , the authorities and representatives of civil society .
As a result , we have been asked to ensure that the Union has a greater political involvement in the Mediterranean .
There are fears about enlargement and there is a feeling that the balance is more in favour of the north and the east and less in favour of the south .
It would be good if the representatives of the Commission and the Council present here today could answer this question .
This is not an easy task , and only dialogue , and not confrontation , can achieve it .
European Union actions are still very diffuse and complex in this area .
Mr President , I did not want to speak earlier in order not to interfere in the debate .
The previous President has clearly discriminated in favour of other MEPs who have been allowed to speak longer than they should have done .
Once we take our places , all MEPs are equal and all of us have to respect the Rules .
Therefore , although this humble MEP does not represent a multinational lobby , he asks that the time allocated to his group be respected .
Mr Bautista Ojeda , your comments will be recorded in the Minutes and will be passed on to the Bureau .
Mr President , my thoughts go automatically to the debate we held here about five years ago , when the Commission at the time bombastically announced the EU ' s new Mediterranean policy .
Today , we all agree that most of what was announced then has not been achieved .
The reason behind those poor results is a combination of a lack of political will on the one hand , and lack of money on the other .
The Council and the Commission , then , must make every possible effort to reanimate the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership agreed at the Barcelona Conference .
It is also important to give new impetus to the MEDA programmes and at the same time to strengthen programmes such as MEDA-Democracy , Euromed-Audiovisual , and sub-regional training programmes for journalists .
I would also like to dwell on another issue which may not seem important to you , but which is important to me personally .
Since those islands have traditional links with both sides , they can be the centres of that cooperation and I think we ought to direct many programmes in the context of MEDA towards that .
I have received 6 motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 42 ( 5 ) of the Rules of Procedure .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
I would like to take this opportunity to tell you that the Secretary of State has formally apologised for being unable to remain with us for the continuation of the debate .
High Level Working Group on Asylum and Migration
Furthermore , I also wish to recognise the positive and cooperative attitude of the Commission to whom , Commissioner , I would like to express my personal thanks .
My report , Mr President , on the one hand reflects the critical feeling of all the groups with regard to aspects of form and substance in the presentation and preparation of the plans .
Mr President-in-Office of the Council , Commissioner , the very fact that these action plans are to be implemented is positive in itself .
It is also positive that we have combined action plans in the fields of foreign policy , cooperation and development and in adopting measures to regulate migratory flows .
However , what has not been positive is the way that the Council has presented these plans to Parliament , which has remained silent on the way in which they have been selected and drafted .
Our basic concern relates to the possible effectiveness of the actions planned for countries such as Afghanistan , Somalia or Iraq , where political instability is combined with constant violations of the most basic human rights .
That is why one of our proposals is to create a budget line for 2001 to cover these needs .
I would also like to draw your attention to the imbalance between the measures to control migratory flows and those which promote genuine cooperation in the development of the countries selected , including measures for integration .
We cannot criminalise immigration , whether it is for economic or political reasons .
It should be understood that it is crucial to implement the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Tampere Summit on the ' communitisation ' of asylum policy and the fair and humanitarian treatment of refugees and immigrants .
We should put emphasis on the humanitarian conditions in reception centres and also take advantage of the experience of some countries with regard to regional approximation .
The success or failure of the European Union ' s first external action in an area as sensitive for European society as immigration and asylum , depends on the success of these plans .
We know that increasing numbers of people are seeking better opportunities or protection through migration , in order to escape war , persecution , poverty , unemployment or violations of their human rights .
We know that there is an increase in illegal migratory movement , for the most part controlled by criminal networks that often create situations involving exploitation and blatant violation of human rights .
We cannot herald good intentions and then fail to put them into practice because of a lack of funding .
Information campaigns must be undertaken in close cooperation with the countries of origin and of transit , publicising the real opportunities for legal emigration , in an attempt to reduce or eliminate the problem at its source .
I believe this is important and I would like an answer from the Council .
Secondly , I would like to say that we have mixed feelings with regard to these action plans .
This is the case with Morocco , for example , with whom we must establish a serious and significant bilateral relationship in order to ensure that the immigration originating from that country remains within the law .
This may also be the case with the Balkan countries , where it is clear who our partners are .
I would like to ask the Council if it intends to go to Afghanistan and say , ' Good afternoon .
We have come to tell you to respect human rights because you are sending us too many refugees . '
This would be absolutely incredible or , at least , very naive .
Furthermore , it seems to me that broaching this issue with these countries is difficult and dangerous .
I believe that there are some people that we should not even speak to on principle .
I have pointed out two problems : who is going to take charge of these action plans and with whom ?
There is a third problem : how are we going to pay for them ?
There is no budgetary contribution set aside for them and the measures which provide for some degree of funding will apparently take money , for example , from cooperation programmes such as MEDA .
I believe this warrants some reflection .
Finally , the development of action plans is on the ' scoreboard ' .
This is a good thing , but I would like to remind you that there is an action plan that has been implemented , that of Iraq , on which nobody has ever provided us with any information .
I would like too to pay tribute to the work that the Commission has done in this area .
We face a number of challenges in a world where the drive for emigration and the drive for immigration into Europe is still substantial .
Clearly , we face a situation where there are push factors in countries of origin and pull factors in our own countries .
It is important that we approach this debate with a very clear distinction between asylum and illegal immigration .
It is important that we retain the commitment set out in the Geneva Convention and a humane approach .
Too rarely do they look to the principles to which they have signed up and try to deal with this problem seriously .
This report sets out a number of proposals for action which are , in my view , to be welcomed .
In particular it looks at immigration and at the inadequacy of current data .
It looks at the problems of the action plans that have been drawn up which fail to strike the right balance between security and immigration .
It looks at the policing of illegal immigration and calls for focus on combating trafficking and combating illegal employment .
These are the things our Member States should be doing .
So in conclusion , Mr President , and on behalf of the Liberal Group , I welcome this report which we will vote on tomorrow .
Mr President , unfortunately the action plans of the High Level Working Group on Asylum and Migration hardly do justice to the task in hand .
If you read the action plans carefully , you will see that most space is devoted to measures to combat illegal immigration .
This is not the only problem , however .
No consideration is given to development policy or foreign policy measures to deal with the reasons which make people flee and emigrate from these regions .
Although the High Level Working Group itself has concluded that human rights violations are an important reason why people flee , too little account of this is taken in the action plans .
Let us look at the situation in Iraq .
Clearly it is not easy at present to make suitable proposals for Iraq which might have some chance of being implemented , given the current political situation .
The same applies in Afghanistan , where one is uncertain as to whom one should even start discussions with .
Whom should we urge to respect human rights ?
The way in which the High Level Working Group was set up and operates also gives cause for criticism .
The European Parliament was consulted on neither the appointments to the group nor the crisis regions selected .
This modus operandi is unacceptable .
Mr Hernndez Mollar ' s report is highly critical of the work of the High Level Working Group .
The report now gives us the opportunity to develop a new basis on which to evaluate the work of the High Level Working Group and my group therefore supports the rapporteur .
Mr President , I hope that honourable Members will forgive me if I stand back and ask a fundamental question .
Why does the European Union need a common asylum policy ?
No one would deny that this is an area where countries can gain from mutual collaboration but , of course , there is nothing new about cooperation among our home countries in the asylum field .
We must not make the mistake , as we so often seem to do in this House , of believing that the only alternative to EU action is some kind of anarchy wherein no nation consults with any other .
On the contrary , the alternative to action at EU level is a negotiation of bilateral and multilateral accords among independent nations .
Such accords have two potential advantages it seems to me over Community action .
First , they are often well tried and well trusted and established and second , they can , of course , apply to states outside of the European Union .
In my own constituency of South-east England the local police and immigration services long enjoyed excellent relations with their French and Belgian counterparts .
Indeed , it is at least arguable that we cooperated more closely with other Member States ten years ago than we do today following the entry into force of the Dublin Convention and its flanking accords .
Now , how can this possibly be ?
Well , it was Aristotle who first adumbrated the principle that which no one owns no one will look after .
His precept surely holds true among nations as it does among individuals .
According to the United Nations High Commissioner for refugees , 93 000 people applied for sanctuary in the United Kingdom last year .
This makes Britain the most common destination for asylum claimants in Europe , a position we hold jointly with Germany .
But what is most astonishing is that this figure has risen in the United Kingdom by some 40 % since the mid-1990s while across the European Union as a whole , it has remained relatively stable .
I say ' astonishing ' because the vast number of applicants in my constituency have passed through several safe countries prior to their arrival there .
Now surely a genuine refugee ' s priority is to get out of the particular country , not to get into one .
Barring exceptional circumstances it is not unreasonable to expect that someone escaping from oppression would apply for sanctuary as soon as he reached a safe state .
That record depends on our ability to distinguish between economic migrants and genuine refugees and it depends critically on our having the resolve to secure our borders against false claimants .
As cooperating states we can do this , as a single territory the evidence suggests that we cannot .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , this report highlights the many errors and omissions which the action plans contain .
First of all , there is the question of partnership , particularly the place given to NGOs .
Their opinion has not been sought or has not been taken into consideration .
Another error is that questions relating to asylum and those relating to emigration have been dealt with in the same way .
It is true that one cannot attack the causes of migratory flows without talking about human rights .
I am going to talk about asylum .
With some countries Europe is signing agreements which include readmission clauses authorising the deportation of third country nationals without the political , economic and social situation of the individual or the country being taken into account .
This clause is a violation of international law .
It refutes the principle of not expelling people before considering whether they are being sent back to a safe country .
Just how can we agree to making development aid conditional upon the signature of such agreements ?
Europe must cease to turn a blind eye .
The best solution to reduce the flow of migration is to support development in these countries and support the welfare of these peoples .
This means cancelling the debt of developing countries . Cancelling the debt would make it possible to develop educational , social and medical structures , which would directly benefit the population .
Moreover , it would be better to improve the host structures for refugees and asylum seekers , who are currently treated as if they were criminals wishing to take advantage of the system .
They must be adequately looked after , and , in particular , given access to medical care , social entitlements , and education for children .
In conclusion , would it not be more urgent to harmonise our asylum and migration policies and to establish a genuine Community policy on the subject ?
Mr President , each of the countries referred to in this report is different and each of the plans varies accordingly .
I will speak only about Sri Lanka , a country I have visited , and a country many of whose citizens have sought refuge in London and other parts of the European Union .
It is a country , President , in which a civil war has raged for the past eighteen years - eighteen years which have seen the proportion of defence spending by the Sri Lankan government rise steadily .
This money is spent fighting a war that the Sri Lankan government cannot win and it is a war that the Tamils cannot win either .
The only solution must be a brokered peace .
It could be that the European Union , with its historical links , could act as that intermediary .
My colleague , Anna Terrn , has said that this report is nave .
I feel that the report skirts around the real issue and is a diversion from the debate that we ought to be having on Sri Lanka and the other countries .
The report says that there is no end to the ethnic conflict in Sri Lanka .
It speaks of human rights abuses , cases of aid not reaching the most desperate areas and of economic deprivation .
That is the effect of the war and it says that we should work more closely with the Sri Lankan government .
Yet it is they who are controlling what we know and it is they who control what coverage we get and we must be circumspect .
We all know about the well-publicised cases of Tamil action against government forces .
We have heard less about the hospitals and schools being destroyed and of torture by Sri Lankan government troops .
So when the report says , Mr President , that we should look for ways to find a political solution to this conflict , I agree .
Nothing else matters .
Nothing else will solve the problems or lessen the human rights abuses .
Nothing short of a cessation of the conflict will end the misery of the Tamils in Sri Lanka and nothing else will end the number of people seeking refuge in the European Union .
Nothing else will stop people from fleeing the country .
A high-level action plan , Mr President , that does not recognise these fundamental reports is - I would argue - not worth the paper it is written on .
Mr President , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur , but the European Union deserves no congratulations whatsoever , for in the area of civil liberties it appears unable to focus on anything but repression .
Mr President , I must make it quite clear that I do not agree with the conclusions of my fellow Italian who has just spoken .
However , I would like to join him in congratulating the rapporteur and his committee on their excellent work .
What conclusions can we draw from this report ?
Ladies and gentlemen , this is an excellent report .
It touches on all the sore points in this saga , but it would be better if we had proposals by the Commission before us rather than reports by government experts .
Let us not lose hope , however , that we will soon be debating these issues here with Commissioner Vitorino .
That will be a sign that Europe has moved towards common policies based on a balance between security and integration , and that it has finally opted to put an end to uncertainty .
I appreciate that Parliament can support the proposed integrated and cross-pillar approach which - and I quote the report - ' may ' produce positive results .
I understand that the Parliament is taking a cautious approach to these action plans and the Commission would like to follow the same line .
On the other hand , one must be aware that , for the time being , these plans only exist on paper .
Clearly this is not an easy task .
Please allow me to highlight , and subscribe to , a number of important elements of your draft resolution .
The partnership with the third countries concerned will be always a key element for the success of such a policy with a view to promoting co-development .
We have to recognise that this political dialogue will have to take into account the very different political situation in each of the five countries .
Therefore , I would like to emphasise the important role that non-governmental organisations will have in the implementation of these action plans .
We are all very well aware of the fact that migration problems will not be solved within the coming month .
We have to bear in mind this very serious limitation when the European Council in December this year receives the first assessment of these action plans .
The action plans , however , can be considered as a first step in creating an external policy on migration of the European Union and should therefore be given a chance .
I also agree with your view that reception in the region does not absolve Member States of the Union from their duties towards asylum-seekers under the Geneva Convention .
When implementing the action plans , it is extremely important to keep the balance between the various measures so that efforts are not concentrated exclusively on the short-term defence actions .
The Commission stresses that it will play an active part in maintaining that balance .
Implementation will require close cooperation between the Council and its competent bodies , the Commission and Member States in accordance with their respective responsibilities as defined in the treaty .
The important role Member States have to play was , by the way , acknowledged at the Justice and Home Affairs Council of last Monday , 27 March .
The presidency has called on the Member States to turn their political commitments into real activities , a request that the Commission has supported .
The Commission is , of course , ready to play the active role it is expected to play , especially in areas such as development and economic assistance , human rights , good governance and institution building .
In order to play a similar role for other measures , the Commission currently lacks the financial means .
I therefore very much welcome your recommendation for the possibility of allocation of extra funds to cover cooperation with third countries in the fields of justice and home affairs with particular reference to immigration .
Mr President , finally I note that you consider that the action plans pay too little attention to the internal policies .
However , I understand the primary aim of the action plan to be to contribute to the development of an external policy of the Union on migration .
Let me assure you anyway that the Commission will take its own responsibilities in the development of a common internal European Union immigration and asylum policy as foreseen in the conclusions of Tampere .
A detailed breakdown of our intentions is presented already in the scoreboard that was endorsed by the Justice and Home Affairs Council last Monday and which was communicated to the Parliament earlier .
Thank you very much , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
2001 budgetary guidelines
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , we face an enormous challenge with the budget for the year 2001 .
The first budget of the new millennium must strengthen the social and cultural dimension of Europe and honour the commitments which the European Union has set itself vis--vis its citizens and vis--vis the international community .
What does that mean in practice and what do we expect from the Commission as we draw up the preliminary draft budget , Commissioner ?
Of course , we assume that the budget will take suitable account of policies newly introduced or reinforced by the Treaty of Amsterdam .
We still consider the implementation of equal opportunities , equality and environmental sustainability to be priorities which we wish to see anchored in the budget .
The main priority for the budget 2001 must still be to remain active in the fight against unemployment .
That does not mean , and let me be quite clear on this , financing huge employment programmes at European level , nobody wants that .
What we do want , however , is to provide the strategic momentum needed so that small and medium-sized enterprises can quickly start using the structures of the new information and communications technologies and participating in the information society .
Apart from this core initiative for the budget 2001 , we must not allow the quality of economic and political integration achieved in the meantime to eclipse our cultural identity as Europeans .
This does not mean centralisation and standardisation , by no means ; on the contrary , it means promoting cultural diversity .
Supporting the regional cultural industry means that we shall be laying its economic foundations and securing its potential to develop .
We want the next budget to meet the challenges of efficient administration and guarantee the necessary transparency in European finances .
We support the Commission ' s efforts to introduce Activity Based Budgeting .
Parliament sets particular store by this .
We shall monitor these objectives closely during the reform process .
But one thing must be absolutely clear : any attempt to reduce parliamentary scrutiny and control of the budget will not be accepted .
The greatest challenge , however , is in relation to our commitment to reconstruct and secure peace and stability in the Balkans .
I would stress here quite clearly and unequivocally that , as far as the objectives are concerned and the need to provide the necessary funds for them , there is no dissent whatsoever .
The European Parliament also stands by these commitments .
In other words , the Council recognises these demands and these commitments .
However , we expect the Council to set itself these new challenges and to act accordingly .
Gaining the ability to act in this important foreign policy area while , at the same time , losing it in other foreign policy areas as the result of excessive savings is unacceptable .
Allow me to make myself quite clear .
The interinstitutional agreement and the budget 2001 are indeed two different pairs of shoes , but both pairs must fit , otherwise we will be unable to walk in them and we will get nowhere .
This call is obviously directed at the Commission and the Commission will submit its proposal accordingly ; however , this message is also directed at the Council , above all at the Council .
I have the very real impression that when the round of finance ministers hears the words ' review of the interinstitutional agreement ' , it immediately thinks of wasted money and sees red .
But a review is not a catastrophe ; it is a perfectly normal procedure which in no way questions the spirit of the agreement .
Histrionics do not help , they merely create unnecessary fronts .
What we need in order to finance the measures referred to is flexibility .
Without flexibility we will get nowhere .
I therefore call on the Council to stop adding fuel to the fire .
Do not commit yourself to a blockade attitude towards the review .
Take your cue from us and work together with us to find a constructive solution which can overcome exaggerated positions both here and there .
Over the last few days , the Lisbon Summit has highlighted aspects of the development and future viability of Europe which deserve support .
We want to support these aspects in the coming budget and concentrate our efforts on these areas .
At the same time , we here in Parliament recognise the need for an economical and efficient budget .
This means avoiding an escalation of the conflict surrounding the financing of external actions at all costs .
What are the challenges which we must take into account in the small budgets for the coming year ?
First , and this applies to all the budgets , budgetary rigour .
When I see that we alone in the European Parliament are planning an increase of 0.07 % in comparison with the year 2000 , then this rigour is guaranteed and we can show our face .
Compared with a total budget of EUR 965 million , that does not represent too big a bite out of the cake at our disposal .
What are the challenges of Activity Based Budgeting ?
Of course this is a question which we must also apply to the other institutions , as and where it is sensible to do so .
If I look around me here , I might wonder what the costs are in relation to the number of members present .
That is not what we mean by these questions ; what we mean is transparent expenditure in the budget lines , so that everything is comprehensible .
We must draw up a medium-term personnel plan in order to meet the huge challenge of the enlargement of the European Union .
This is a huge challenge for us in Parliament and for the translation services in the other institutions .
We have been preparing for this over recent years and we must start to take up the challenges and manage personnel developments accordingly in 2001 .
This gives rise to a second thought which we must consider .
How can we work together with other institutions in the area of personnel recruitment ?
We must bear in mind that there are also new challenges in the legislative area since the Treaty of Amsterdam entered into force .
I only have to look at the Commission ' s work programme , with its 108 codecision procedures , to see that this is a challenge which we did not have to face in the past .
This includes preliminary scientific work , I should like to be quite clear on that .
We are dealing with a Commission which has a joint research centre .
We are dealing with 15 Member States which have their own national resources and , as a legislator with equal rights , Parliament must naturally make use of its opportunities here .
We suggest that we make provision for new posts in certain areas , but only where absolutely necessary .
We shall have to examine this very closely over coming weeks and months because we have some room for manoeuvre .
As far as the other institutions are concerned , I only have a few comments to make .
I think we should try to ensure that the interpreting service starts working more closely with the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions forthwith .
There is potential for collaboration here .
We shall have to monitor the Court of Justice very closely .
I hope that new rules will be developed for the Court of Justice during the review of the Treaty which will allow it to operate efficiently and which will ensure that there is long-term financing for personnel planning .
So I treat this as a beginning and not an end .
As a beginning , I would say the Environment Committee would like to reiterate the demands it made last year with regard to the budget .
We have a persistent and clear need to continue to work towards greening the budget in all areas of policy activity and I want to see further work on this this year .
I want to see more work from the Commission showing us how that money is being properly and correctly applied and what the positive outcomes are .
I also want to give more consideration to what the agencies are doing and take a more differentiated approach to them depending on their particular roles and activities which we have not done in the past .
The committee also wants to reiterate its support for continued financial assistance to NGO participation in much of the technical committee work of the Parliament and the Commission .
Finally , Mr President , I would say that we continue to oppose the tobacco subsidies which are continuously being paid by the Commission and the sooner we get a chance to do something about it the better .
That is the view of this Parliament .
Mr President , the Committee on Women 's Rights and Equal Opportunities requests that the Committee on Budgets incorporate the following conclusions into the motion for a resolution which it adopts :
I must emphasise that the amenability of the rapporteur , whom I congratulate , has enabled a broader consensus to be reached .
In this way we are sending out a clear political message .
The provisions of the Treaty are designed to be implemented . It is not merely a declaration of intent , which would be a serious example of political hypocrisy as well as completely unacceptable .
The substance of the Treaty must be implemented .
The report broaches the issue of employment in terms of job creation , which in turn is connected to micro , small and medium-sized enterprises , as well as to the use of new technologies .
This , for us , is the crucial approach .
It is vital for new jobs to be created and this depends on the initiative and the creativity of entrepreneurs .
Let there be investment , then , in a culture of initiative .
The report restates the need for a sustainable and multiannual contribution to financial aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo and for the stabilisation of the Balkans as part of a review of the financial perspective .
It rejects such financing if it is to be provided at the expense of existing commitments , either involving external actions or through cuts in the common agricultural policy or other policies .
New money must be found for new requirements , with the condition , as always , of judiciously identifying those requirements , and the rigorous use of funds , as should always be the case .
In relation to Kosovo , this concern seems to be particularly reasonable .
The report insists on the need to reform the European Union ' s administrative system , which is essential if there is to be efficiency , responsibility and transparency .
Mr President , I would like to start off by congratulating Mr Ferber on excellent guidelines . I welcome the clear orientation of the report to planning for enlargement .
The drive towards efficiency is especially vital in the context of enlargement .
It is important even at this early stage that we have a clear strategy on how the institutions will respond to the accession of new members .
We need to be imaginative about how we address the issues of staffing and building requirements .
The institutions cannot respond to enlargement by just adding an extra post here or an office there .
We do not want a Lego approach to enlargement .
What we need is a major rethink about management of operations and that involves all the institutions exploring alternative ways and embracing new information technologies wholeheartedly .
This is especially important in relation to linguistic support .
As everybody here needs to recognise , there are major limitations in relation to resources that will be available as a result of enlargement and there are implications for the financial perspective in relation to Category 5 expenditure .
However , these guidelines are not just about enlargement they are about policy direction for all the institutions next year .
Therefore , greater accountability and transparency have to be top priority because the European citizen does not distinguish between the different institutions .
Any changes have to be clearly justified and transparent .
Improvements and efficiencies need to be demonstrated by every institution and I believe that this can only be achieved through tools such as activity-based budgeting and thorough examination of current policies and systems and procedures .
One of the biggest inefficiencies that we have is the location of EU institutions and if we want to be taken seriously we need to focus our work on one seat .
I appreciate we have obligations under the treaties to two different locations but we should make sure that these are not expanded .
Many of you are aware that the UK is reluctant to expand the scope of qualified majority voting but this is one issue where the UK would gladly see majority voting take place .
Mr President , Commissioner , the rapporteurs Mrs Haug and Mr Ferber have drafted their first report on next year ' s EU budget .
I wish them both luck in the task facing them .
Drafting the budget means spending taxpayers ' money .
For that reason the work is important and calls for stringent budgetary discipline .
There are many areas that call for financing , but there are only a few vital ones .
Only the vital areas can receive public funding .
In addition to stringent budgetary discipline we wish to stress the following : our Group gives its full support to the package of reforms as proposed by Mr Kinnock .
Activity-Based Budgeting and management will be the cornerstones of these reforms .
They will emphasise the importance of personal responsibility , diminish the bureaucratic load and enhance efficiency .
But the reforms will require cooperation with the staff .
That is why we have to prepare carefully for the forthcoming talks regarding the reform of staff regulations .
The current staffing structure has to be clarified and made more flexible , so as to facilitate the reallocation of funds , for example .
The work of reform might also demand additional budgetary proposals , which we urge the Commission to be prepared for .
Mrs Haug ' s report stresses the importance of culture as a means of creating jobs . Culture as such falls within the competence of the Member States .
However , culture as a means of livelihood is an area which is rapidly growing in importance .
For that reason we support the report insofar as it emphasises the importance of developing this within the framework of structural action .
Our group also believes that Category 1 of the financial perspective - agricultural expenditure - should not be used as a primary source of financing in response to needs that become manifest in external policy .
With regard to Mr Ferber ' s report , we would like to remark that we are disinclined to take a position on the details as yet , including the establishment of posts .
Nevertheless , we consider it vital that reforms concerning members ' rules be established promptly , in accordance with earlier agreements .
Mr President , Commissioner , I must say that I feel rather uneasy when confronted with this report , especially after the amendments by the Committee on Budgets .
Mrs Haug is not to blame .
Taken in isolation , a good number of her subparagraphs are acceptable , and some are even excellent , and my group will vote in favour of them .
Once again , there are plans to rob Peter to pay Paul in accordance with the sacrosanct budgetary Stability Pact .
For my part , I remain convinced that we must , on the contrary , ask the question clearly : do we wish to play an active part on this continent and throughout the world ?
If we do , then we should provide ourselves , in moderation , but steadfastly , with the financial resources to do so .
The same reasoning is equally applicable to other priorities , which have been advertised but not acted upon , such as social aspects , employment or even cooperation with the countries of the South .
I hope that , beyond this vote , there will be enough of us to relaunch the initiative in time , in this spirit , and , this time , to hold out until the end .
Mr President , I would like to start by thanking Mrs Haug and Mr Ferber for their reports , which are doubtless comprehensive and very detailed in terms of all the guidelines .
In addition to this , I welcome the fact that the item of natural disasters occurring within our nations has been reinserted in the budget . Why ?
And so I welcome the reinsertion of this item in the budget as a major step .
However , on a more antagonistic note , I have to point out that we cannot make cuts in agriculture as a matter of course .
We cannot go on like this .
Finally , I would stress the need to restructure the budget - for example , we could axe TAOs - and thus secure new resources .
So far , only some 30 % of women have access to the Internet and high earners have three times more access to the Internet than low earners . This is not on .
There is another important point in this budget .
It concerns civil dialogue .
We are calling for sustainable financing for civil dialogue and for the non-governmental organisations involved in it , in order to support their important role as the voice of the disadvantaged .
Mr President , Commissioner , naturally , the question of employment also plays a decisive part during budgetary discussions in the Committee on Fisheries .
Healthy growth and low unemployment are what we all want .
Europe needs to set the framework , which is one of the reasons it created the Treaty of Amsterdam .
But the real responsibility for employment , and this is not the first time that I have stressed this , lies with the Member States .
A greencard alone , such as that for which provision has been made in Germany , is not a practice which makes perfect .
It is in practice that a Member State demonstrates at home if it is being innovative or if it is hiding with an innocent expression behind the EU .
That would be cheap and it would not be right .
How can we stand up to the Committee on Budgets ' demand for rigour in these circumstances ?
The EU will have a new fisheries policy from 2002 , a huge , fascinating venture with a global dimension .
We are already making the necessary preparations , which is why we also need the strong guidelines planned by the main rapporteur in the fisheries sector .
Later we will need the commensurate funds .
Thank you very much , Mrs Langenhagen .
I congratulate you on being able to express yourself in less than the time allotted to you .
Unfortunately , others do not tend to follow suit .
Mr President , Commissioner , first may I extend my warmest congratulations to Mr Ferber and Mrs Haug on the work which they have carried out .
In the first year in which the full budgetary procedure comes to fruition , we are all bound to be highly enthusiastic .
Everyone wants to have their say , as we have seen in the very active and lively debates over recent days and weeks .
The Union budget of EUR 90 billion represents so many hopes , the hopes of people looking for support .
They may be farmers in the European Union , who obviously want appropriate remuneration , a just reward , which they have earned , for producing healthy food .
There are the hopes of the unemployed , who want us to support them along the path back to work .
There are the hopes of the young , there are hopes throughout the world , in which we , as the rich continent of Europe , and we are the rich continent of Europe , can give assistance .
We do not want any curious divisions of tasks , as are presently becoming apparent , when this money is distributed over the coming weeks and months .
It is becoming apparent that there are people on the one side who are making promises left , right and centre and raising their estimates .
Contrary to what has been said here time and again , agricultural spending will not fall , it will rise by nearly 5 % or even more than 5 % next year .
We must not upset the farmers too much in this European Union .
This division of tasks is unacceptable .
In future , excavators will be rattling past , not tanks .
You must be able to reconstruct and we want to help you .
We cannot have a situation in which they promise so much and then come and say , take the money we need from the most needy .
That cannot be .
We have stretched out our hand .
Mrs Haug has stretched out her hand .
She has said that we are prepared to work openly with the Council and the Commission .
We want to show you that there is no need for a repeat of last year ' s tragedy , with heckling and confrontation throughout the entire budgetary procedure .
We can work together .
You should know that .
Take the outstretched hand .
Take the outstretched hand and do not engage in the same pettiness as last year , because it damages all of us in Europe , including the people who pin their hopes on us .
Mr President , securing the future has always been a difficult issue , irrespective of whether it takes the form of a White Paper , deregulation , partnership or structural adjustment .
It is the financial situation which dictates future development .
The major topics are correctly positioned in the main report , but the report lacks content .
Fighting unemployment through economic growth is the greatest challenge facing Europe .
The Lisbon Summit announced the direction to be taken up to the year 2010 .
We must therefore expect future intergovernmental conferences to substantiate how this is to be done .
Farmers and cooperatives expect the European Commission to reduce the amount of red tape in the agricultural economy and adopt budgetary guidelines based on calculation , reliability and progressive structures .
The Berlin resolutions set out agricultural policy up to the year 2006 .
Farmers and politicians fought hard for this position .
The ink was barely dry on the budget 2000 when Mrs Schreyer demanded a financial review and financial perspective for the priorities , together with action on negative expenditure .
Unless these funds are channelled back into the agricultural budget , Agenda 2000 will be jeopardised , especially as further technical inconsistencies are to be expected .
This is a policy based on rough estimates and founded on pure observation .
Of course , the Balkans must be reconstructed but , overall , in a spirit of social solidarity .
Then , and I am convinced of this , the farmers and cooperatives will also make their contribution .
Mr President , we cannot give our assent to the general economic rationale of the resolution on the budget guidelines for the 2001 budgetary procedure as it now stands .
We find this attempt to fund the reconstruction of Kosovo at the expense of European farmers , and to convince us that there is no budgetary solution other than this outrageous deception , absolutely iniquitous .
Quite the contrary , we should maintain expenditure on agriculture , the compulsory expenditure , and moderate expenditure under other categories , where there are unquestionable margins .
Well , we are all aware that the mid-term review planned by the Berlin Summit is due to take place in 2003 .
Regardless of the background , we do not accept the challenging of the conclusions of the Berlin Summit represented by this continual demand for the financial perspective and the various categories to be revised .
So I repeat , Mr President , there are no grounds for the call for the revision of the financial perspective .
We therefore reject it .
Mr President , I would first like to say that I agree with the political priorities expounded by Mrs Haug .
Nevertheless , we are still lacking explicit support for such relevant fields as scientific research , technological innovation and development .
Failure to take these into account in the Union ' s budget is equivalent to going out on a rainy day without an umbrella .
Without a constant and intense effort in these fields there will be no competitiveness and a lack of competitiveness means no new jobs will be created .
We have therefore introduced an amendment to cover this .
However , it is not enough simply to give them access to new communication and information technologies .
The Internet is a tool , not a magic wand .
Lastly , with regard to what Mrs Haug describes as the " cultural economy " , we have pointed out that she mentions it amongst the political priorities , and then it fails to appear elsewhere in the text .
In order to deal with this methodological inconsistency , we have proposed an amendment which expands on this thought-provoking concept .
Ralf Walter made the very pertinent point that agriculture expenditure will actually increase and if money is taken from 1A it will be from surpluses , but let us wait until the PDB comes along .
We are working on assumptions when we present this report from Mrs Haug .
I am just referring to the Haug report not to Mr Ferber ' s .
I congratulate the pair of them but in this Haug report we make certain assumptions about the revision , about redeployment in Category 4 and about the needs of Kosovo .
My gut feeling is that there will be no agreement with the Council on getting a revision of the financial perspective .
We will be determined to do our best for the Balkans and Kosovo but , at the same time , we will be realistic for those other policies which Parliament considers to be important .
The trouble with the Council is that everything revolves around what was agreed at Berlin .
We keep being told that Berlin is set in concrete .
Kosovo is one of those occasions where the financial perspective is not flexible enough and it needs to be changed and that message has to be got through otherwise there will be problems .
The members of Lutte Ouvrire will therefore be voting against the Haug report .
Mr President , I congratulate both rapporteurs on their reports , which have received a high degree of consensus .
The Ferber report is a very courageous exposition of the present and future needs of Parliament .
This House voted by a majority for a financial perspective which respected the political balances of Berlin , even when we were all aware of its shortcomings in the face of unexpected external events .
Last December , this Parliament voted to maintain the financial perspective and the interinstitutional agreement despite the fact that , at that time , the Council drew out the negotiation to unacceptable limits .
Today , the Council , Parliament and the Commission are bound by a signed commitment .
This is a very serious commitment .
If we have to finance new policies , we have to find new funding .
Mr President , Commissioner Schreyer , Mr Liikanen said at the Commission hearings that we will be around 1.2 million jobs short in the e-commerce sector by the year 2002 .
Providing the quantities and quality needed therefore represents a real challenge .
Commissioner Schreyer , I should like to ask you if you can really tell us which budgetary lines create , maintain or destroy factories and / or jobs ?
Is there in fact a valuation which we can use as a starting point to say which budgetary lines support the creation of new jobs ?
Does DG IV have any scientific studies or papers on the subject ?
Today in question time I asked the Commission how many jobs are lost if manufacturing plants making products which cannot be exported because they are banned in Europe are closed down .
Commissioner Byrne quite rightly said that , as far as he was concerned , public health took priority .
This morning we discussed environmental protection .
Then it was said that environmental protection took priority .
I think we should find an objective procedure which safeguards new jobs .
We can only do so if there is proper representation of the confederations of industry , especially confederations of small enterprises employing up to 10 people .
I think that also represents an opportunity in relation to the enlargement of the EU .
We must endeavour above all to include small enterprises .
That is an important function and social dialogue is needed here .
I would be pleased to see new initiatives in this area .
Mr President , I want to thank the rapporteurs for their work and say that they have found a decent consensus and produced good reports .
If there are to be problems - and sometimes there are problems - it will be around this whole question of the proposal to finance the shortfall in Category 4 with money from the agricultural section of the budget .
This proposal is more likely to create psychological problems throughout the European Union in rural areas than real problems .
Nevertheless , we do have a fall in incomes .
We did have a statement by the Commission for 2000-2006 and that set out certain perimeters within which agricultural spending would be provided for .
We need a little bit more clarity and there is tension building up between the institutions on this question of the Balkans .
The sooner the Commission can propose to us clear figures for year-by-year spending the better .
So why generate a battle about some EUR 300 million that , in the end , I do not think that we will have to call down from agriculture ?
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , to reflect the priorities of European policy in the budget of the European Union , that is the objective of this highly premature debate on the budget 2001 .
It is the first budget for which the new Commission has drawn up a preliminary draft budget and the first budget in which I , as a new Commissioner , shall be involved right from the outset .
I think it is really useful that we already have a joint procedure between the European Parliament and the Commission , an understanding of which priorities require financial cover in the 2001 budgetary year .
We are not yet at the stage of talking specific figures , not yet at the input stage ; in fact what we are discussing now is the output .
What do we want , what objectives do we want to achieve or support with this budget ?
In my opinion , setting the priorities like this is the best way of starting the debate on a budgetary year .
I note in connection with the priorities being set for the next budgetary year that the reports , that the priorities which you are setting , tally closely with the priorities being set by the Commission .
I think that this paves the way for bringing the budgetary procedure to a successful conclusion .
I should like in particular to thank the two rapporteurs on behalf of the Commission .
The report suggests that the other institutions will also gradually follow this lead .
Above all , the report expresses support for the Commission ' s administrative reform and I should expressly like to thank the rapporteur for that .
Of course , the Commission will be pleased if the other institutions are also called upon to consider , for their part , which administrative reforms would be advisable and which can be implemented .
Mr Ferber , you referred in your report to other problems which need to be resolved .
I would like to single out the question of financing for political parties .
I think that this is an issue on which we need to take joint action to find a speedy solution .
Now to Mrs Haug ' s report .
You have concentrated instead on the real priorities and I think that is very valuable if we are to reach an understanding .
You laid particular emphasis on external policy tasks , which I shall come to in a moment .
At this point , you have already debated this , I should like to comment on the results of the Lisbon Summit .
I should like to comment on your question as to how great an effect the European budget has on employment .
Of course , the programme financed by the Structural Funds is one of the most important instruments for promoting employment .
I am also extremely pleased that my colleague , Mr Barnier , has said that the Commission will not be satisfied with woolly statements but wants specific calculations so that everything can be checked .
I should like to comment specifically now on the question of the expenditure needed for the Stability Pact in the western Balkans .
It was also the central theme of today ' s debate .
The Commission too has based its conclusions on the priorities for the budget 2001 on an estimated financing requirement in the order of EUR 5.5 billion for the period up to 2006 .
It has been pointed out on several sides that demands are being made on the Commission .
You demanded this of the Commission and the Council in your resolution of 16 December .
The Commission is being called upon to submit specific estimates of the funds needed in April and , at the same time , to state the extent to which the financial perspective needs to be reviewed .
My colleague , Chris Patten , took on this task together with Mr Nielson .
However , we came to the conclusion that additional funds are needed which can be financed through other measures , which I shall come to in a moment .
I should like to stress at this point that the figure or estimate of EUR 5.5 billion for the period up to 2006 is being analysed , and rightly so .
I should like to point out in this context that EUR 4.5 billion was channelled to the regions from the budget of the European Union between 1991 and 1999 .
If we now quote a figure of EUR 5.5 billion , of course that represents a considerable increase , but it is not an exorbitant increase and is in proportion to past assistance .
I think we are all in agreement on the fact that , in comparison with the last decade , we must focus more strongly on financial assistance and financial aid for the regions .
I should like to comment now on the financing proposal , especially the point relating to redeploying funds from the agricultural policy area .
This is a matter of particular concern to me insofar as anxieties may have been aroused in the debate here which , in my view , are not really justified .
According to the financial perspective , compared with the budget 2000 , an increase of EUR 3.1 billion for agricultural market expenditure would be possible from a purely theoretical point of view , according to the figures .
The Commission proposal makes provision for a further increase of EUR 2.8 billion for agricultural market expenditure .
I would be obliged if you could take note of this and not say that we are letting a genie out of the bottle in the area of agricultural market policy which will then jeopardise all expenditure .
Allow me to say a few words on the overall increase in the size of the budget .
We have already had the opportunity to debate this twice in the Committee on Budgets .
We shall doubtless need to engage in intensive debate with the Council as to the rate by which expenditure needs to be increased .
I should perhaps come back to the budgetary procedure for the budgetary year 2000 .
The budgetary procedure last year was extremely exciting , to put it diplomatically .
I had a good opportunity to get to know you really well and found that the Committee on Budgets was a very robust committee with excellent staying powers .
However , I hope for all our sakes that the 2001 budgetary procedure will not necessarily put our endurance to the test once again and will be marked by greater consensus .
I am also convinced that , should we come to blows again , the Committee on Budgets will demonstrate the same staying powers .
I can assure you that the Commission will again be at your constant disposal so that we can achieve a positive result .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Combating child sex tourism
Mr President , child sex tourism is not a national or a European problem , it is a global problem which has become more and more explosive and more and more extensive over recent years .
The motion for a resolution which has been tabled takes account of this fact .
It no longer has a selective , national or European dimension .
The motion for a resolution therefore contains two central demands .
Secondly : account must be taken of the principle of extraterritorial jurisdiction .
We need standard national legislation throughout Europe which punishes Union citizens who engage in child sex tourism , irrespective of where the offence was committed .
Europe must take responsibility for its citizens , even beyond its borders .
Each of us knows of cases of child abuse in our own country .
The Council and Commission have indeed supported the principle of extraterritorial jurisdiction , but these drafts still allow for the criterion of dual criminality in exceptional cases .
In other words , in exceptional cases , it would still be possible for sex tourists who have abused children to escape punishment if the country in which the offence was committed does not punish child abuse .
The European Parliament flatly rejects this regulation on possible exceptions .
The Member States must be proactive in opposing anything which encourages or plays down child sex tourism .
Respect for the rights of the child must be anchored in the European Treaties if we are to guarantee protection for children in principle .
Measures taken so far must be examined to see how effective and efficient they really are and EU funds must also be made available in the future to fight child sex tourism .
The role of NGOs is particularly important in this context .
The Commission is called upon to draw up a survey of national laws in this sphere and , if necessary , to submit suitable proposals setting out the constituent elements of offences .
The freedoms and rights of citizens include freedom from physical and mental harm .
This applies not only to our children but to all children .
It is our duty to implement this with all the means at our disposal .
Everyone involved agreed on this consensus .
In my view , this resolution sets an example for constructive and fruitful cooperation which goes beyond the party political divide .
I should therefore like to thank all my fellow Members , especially those from the other committees involved , whose positions have been worked into my report .
This is also an explanation of the fact that numerous proposed amendments were rejected by my group .
They are already contained in the report , even if some are formulated differently .
I am convinced that this is a good , sensible resolution which will allow us to protect children .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , first , I should like to thank Mrs Klamt for this comprehensive and thorough report .
I am glad , too , that the opinion of the Committee on Women ' s Rights has been incorporated into the report .
Child sex tourism does not take place only in Europe , but throughout the world .
Child sex tourism is a tragic and distressing fact of life and this problem has become worse and more serious in certain regions of the world over recent years .
Parliament ' s approach to the fight against this evil must therefore go beyond the borders of Europe .
In addition to the situation in the Far East , there is also that on the German-Czech border , which is why this problem needs to be clarified in no uncertain terms during accession negotiations .
It is important to clarify the legal situation and to dispense with the notion of dual criminality .
The law of the offenders ' country of origin must be binding for the purposes of criminal prosecution .
Offenders should not imagine themselves to be safe in some law-free zone .
It must be possible to punish offenders , even if abuse is not a punishable offence in the country in which it is committed .
This problem cannot be solved through national measures .
We need a common approach in the European Union and in the Member States , in cooperation with the third countries in question .
Children as persons with their own , inviolable rights deserve our special protection , irrespective of the country in which they live .
This protection must be guaranteed in both theory and practice .
Sufficient funds must be provided to support an effective , victim-orientated fight against this evil .
In all the Member States of the European Union , the necessary legislative measures must be taken and the laws harmonised in order to guarantee the protection of children .
Last but not least , protection of children as separate personalities with the right to freedom from physical and mental harm must be included in the Charter of Fundamental Rights .
Mr President , I wish to congratulate the rapporteur , Mrs Klamt , on a splendid and successful piece of work .
Swedish travel agents are to be the first in the world to actively combat the child sex trade , which is rife in many so-called tourist paradises .
All the major players in the Swedish tourist industry have already promised to comply with a special code of conduct .
Once they have shown that they are fulfilling the requirements of the code , they will be duly approved or certified .
As early as the beginning of April of this year , a campaign was begun to make travellers aware of what is happening .
There are TV and cinema advertisements , posters at the airports and large placards .
Behind the code of conduct lies the Swedish branch of ECPAT , an organisation which works to end the sexual exploitation of children .
Among the requirements made of travel companies are that they should train their staff , both at home and at the resorts , as well as inform travellers .
They are also to see to it that , for example , hotel owners and staff are aware of , and contribute to , the work being done to combat the child sex trade .
It is about touching people ' s consciences .
Allow me to conclude my speech by talking about children - our greatest gift , the most precious thing we have .
They are innocent and defenceless and they seek security .
We must awaken citizens ' consciences where our children are concerned .
I also want to talk about the sexual dimension to life .
Adult society cannot escape from its failure to adequately foster an appreciation of both the wonder and the responsibility entailed in sexual experience .
It is about showing love and tenderness , about the gift of life , about carrying life forward and about faithfulness .
We must awaken citizens ' consciences regarding the place of love in our lives .
Mr President , I should first , of course , like to congratulate Mrs Klamt on her report .
It is not only excellent in quality but also extremely useful .
Everyone agrees on the idea that children are the future of the world but , at the same time , they represent one of the most vulnerable groups in the population of this planet .
Indeed , the United Nations Convention of 20 November 1989 granted them specific rights and all our actions should take their inspiration from recognition of these rights .
We must tackle a dreadful scourge , the sexual exploitation of children .
There are ' clients ' , if one can use the word in such a horrifying situation , who buy children in order to indulge their sexual fantasies .
These clients , from Europe , the United States or Japan are the hard core of child abusers .
This horrendous phenomenon occurs principally in third countries where there is great poverty .
The chief causes are poverty and social inequality , the collapse of family and community protection , discrimination against girls and ignorance .
All these causes combine to form a melting pot where lives are shattered by the greed of some parties and the deviance of others .
We might remember the old Japanese proverb which says , ' The traveller knows no shame ' .
Some people have no qualms about doing in another country what they would not do at home .
It is a compound of anonymity and impunity coupled with a scorn one might describe as racist , which permits some individuals to treat a child as an object to be used , defiled and rejected .
Most child prostitutes are part of the general prostitution market run by Mafias of procurers .
It is very hard to locate these children and to extract them from a life of prostitution .
Unfortunately , some individuals use the Internet to provide details of their base acts and addresses where children can be procured .
The origins of the problem can be attacked by tackling poverty and ignorance .
There must be criminal penalties for child abusers .
The first chapter of the European Charter on the Rights of the Child states that ' child ' refers to any person under the age of 18 .
I suggest that we adopt this age limit and say that all minors must absolutely be protected .
It is our duty to this generation which represents our future , a generation which expects us to protect and respect it .
This report and the Commission communication to which it responds makes two major contributions to progress in seeking to reduce sexual exploitation of children through so-called sex tourism .
It is not acceptable that our citizens should behave abroad in a way that they would not behave at home .
Secondly , this report makes a contribution to police and judicial cooperation in the European Union .
This is a strong example where those Euro-sceptics who resist cooperation in this field are wrong .
It is only by joint across-the-board action that we can tackle this issue , not least by agreeing to extra-territorial application of criminal laws .
So I congratulate Mrs Klamt for a very valuable report and I hope it will continue to be built on in future .
I particularly recall measures such as the inclusion of children ' s rights in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the setting up of free telephone helplines for children .
There is an urgent need for a coherent policy for the protection of children to be implemented .
I therefore support Amendment No 4 calling for a European centre for missing children and victims of sexual abuse to be set up in order to coordinate the activities of the organisations set up in the Member States .
The Commission must undertake to actually establish this European database .
I wish to point out that Parliament has already adopted resolutions on this subject .
It must be noted that the proposals made have only been implemented in part .
Much more effective measures are required .
Finally , I must alert the House to the latest developments .
It is now not just sex tourists who are travelling to third countries ; we now have children being sent here , to Europe , like so many items sent by parcel post .
Considering , then , the transnational nature of the problem , I think that we should demand that Europol supports national and transnational inquiries and gives an annual report of its work .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I too would like to offer my sincere congratulations to Mrs Klamt .
I feel that she has produced a report which proposes practical solutions , as many of us wished , and I thank her for that .
I also think that she has avoided the pitfalls of sexophobia , which was not lacking in some contributions .
It is an extremely serious problem .
The report is a good one , but I would not like to see it sabotaged or even drastically cut by one section of this House tomorrow , as I fear it will be .
A separate vote means that some parts of the text may be removed .
In particular , the Group of the Party of European Socialists is asking for the suggestion for the establishment of a committee of enquiry to be removed .
I find that cause for extremely serious concern .
We are aware , for we have already discussed this , of the seriousness of the situation in some countries within the Union , particularly in Belgium .
These are extremely serious matters , involving high-ranking personalities , but it is all still perfectly concealed , completely outside the scope of the justice system .
I think that we can and we must look at what is happening in the third world . We can and we must , and let me once again thank Mrs Klamt , propose solutions .
I agree with Mrs Ludford : we must think in terms of institutions , in terms of an international court , and consider already extending the jurisdiction of international courts , but we must not neglect our own doorstep .
There are some extremely serious situations within the European Union as well .
Mr President , the matter addressed by Mrs Klamt ' s truly excellent report is one of the most burning and ever growing issues of our time , to which a solution must urgently be found .
We therefore urgently need an integrated and cohesive Community policy on children and it is really sad - as others too have said - that the Treaty of Amsterdam does not provide the necessary legal base .
We also need legislation which is binding on an extra-territorial scale , to punish culpable acts perpetrated abroad , with strict provisions for the prosecution of travel agencies and haulage companies which promote the abomination of child sex tourism .
We need more resources for the implementation of specific schemes , and we need closer cooperation between the Commission and the tourism industry to define codes of ethics .
We should look towards the good example set by Sweden .
Finally , we must also act to protect and support children who are victims of sexual exploitation , and young refugees and immigrants who are a particularly vulnerable group .
Mr President , in November 1996 , the European Commission adopted its first communication on combating child sex tourism .
A year later , in November 1997 , a European Parliament resolution and a Council statement on ' Tourism ' revealed the general consensus among the institutions on the broad lines of the Commission communication .
It has since been expressed in the Council conclusions of 21 December 1999 , which display a new firm political commitment to resolving this significant social problem , which we are pledged to do .
If , as it is to be hoped , the European Parliament reiterates its support for this approach , then this will strengthen the determination of all the operators involved in combating this scourge .
At the same time , further progress in this direction will contribute to our response to the concerns expressed by European citizens at the development of this scourge .
The development of child sex tourism flies in the face of the very idea of a human community united on the basis of ideals such as respect and dignity , and public welfare and remembrance .
In operational terms , the raft of planned operations has been implemented steadily .
Combating child sex tourism offers the Commission an opportunity to enlist its various services to step up internal coordination .
It also affords the Commission the opportunity to step up its cooperation with the national administrations , professional associations and non-governmental organisations involved .
Other Commission initiatives in the context of the increased involvement of the tourist industry have also had practical results , particularly in terms of drawing up and strengthening codes of conduct and other self-regulatory mechanisms in the tourist industry .
As I am sure you are aware , your support will give us further incentive to pursue this avenue with yet more determination .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Liability for defective products
It is an honour and a pleasure to have the opportunity to present this report to Parliament today .
It is on the very important subject of product liability on which the European Community first introduced legislation as long ago as 1985 in the form of a directive .
This was transposed in a somewhat leisurely way , and in some cases we might even say in a shockingly slow way , by Member States .
This legislation substitutes distributive justice , in a sense , for corrective justice in this very important area of the law of civil liability .
This is a very good idea . It helps to spread the risks of injury widely and ensure compensation .
Of course , it does not in itself ensure product safety .
That is better done by other regimes regulating various industries , and we have a good regulatory regime in most of our industries in the European Union now .
Moreover , it should not be thought that this is the only basis upon which people who are injured can be helped .
There , however , it is a kind of forensic lottery , as academics have called it , because many people who are injured get nothing at all and some people who are injured get enormous damages .
It is generally , and rightly , thought that plaintiffs ' lawyers are the people who do best out of the deal .
We should stick to our own view on social security as the main basis for help , but then have this product liability regime as well .
The Green Paper raised the question of whether this scheme should be extended and whether some changes should be made .
This was in response to debates in Parliament last year , which led to the amendment of the directive to include primary agricultural products .
It seems to me that the Green Paper , although it has started the debate well , will not finish it completely .
It gave a useful summary of the way the law has developed and been applied , and then asked a series of questions of interested parties and required replies in by the end of November last year .
We need more and deeper study for that purpose .
There is a great deal of very interesting work of a scholarly and scientific kind and there could be more if it was known that this was properly under consideration .
I would not myself like to leave it at that .
I do not think it should be prejudged . I would not myself like to be a party to imposing on Europe the " tort tax " under which Americans have made themselves suffer .
We have a good law and the saying " if a thing ain ' t broken , don ' t fix it ; but do not be complacent about it either " applies here .
Mr President , yesterday , ladies and gentlemen , an American court awarded the nicotine victim Leslie Whiteley compensation of no less than USD 44 million .
A week ago , the European Council in Lisbon spoke out in favour of a Europe of innovation .
Under these circumstances the question which arises is , do we need to review our European liability law ?
Do we want to mimic the Americans in our liability law ?
How can we formulate a liability law which promotes rather than hinders innovation ?
We want a liability law which promotes innovation and does not conceal incalculable liability risks for companies launching new products .
In evaluating the opinions submitted on the Green Paper , we should like the Commission to have a free rein when it assesses the need to reform the product liability directive .
We would like you to evaluate the reports which you receive impartially .
We think , at first glance , that the present liability law achieves a fair balance between the interests of consumers on the one hand and the interests of product manufacturers on the other .
Companies must assume liability for damage to consumers without fault .
At the same time , liability is statute barred after ten years and capped at EUR 75 million .
We therefore take the view that a review should only be started if there is clear proof of the need to amend the directive .
Caution and level-headedness are needed .
Millions of cases are affected day after day .
We wish the Commission every success in evaluating the results of the Green Paper .
I refer to the checks which your department needs to carry out , Commissioner Bolkestein , and the question of the burden of proof which , according to Article 4 , rests solely on the injured party .
My group believes the Commission should check if prima facie evidence and circumstantial evidence can also be taken into account at all levels at which evidence is taken .
This is particularly important because the product world is becoming more and more complex and it is becoming more and more difficult for individual persons who have suffered damage to provide proof in this area .
There is also the question of derogations from general manufacturer ' s liability , especially the so-called development risk .
We need to examine if these derogations are expedient and conducive to the balance between manufacturers and consumers .
This applies in particular in the case of foodstuffs and medication .
We do not want to see the consumer alone bear the risks inherent in technical progress .
In my view , applying the directive solely to private use and consumption is a questionable move .
The Commission should consider if the directive should not be extended to commercial goods .
The material damage sustained by a company is , in principle , no different from the material damage sustained by a private individual .
And the smaller the enterprise , the heavier the burden of this unequal treatment .
We also need to think about the way in which liability is statute-barred .
It is clear from the case of BSE that a standard ten-year limitation on liability may be insufficient under certain circumstances .
We could perhaps consider gearing the limitation period to the type of product .
However , it is not only these individual points which are important ; we also need to seize every opportunity to harmonise product liability still further in the form of comprehensive consumer protection in the European Union .
If we supplement the MacCormick report in this direction , the European Parliament will have done a good job in the eyes of the consumer .
Which is why we have been elected .
I would particularly like to focus my comments on the issues raised by this report on the further harmonisation of private law .
Professor MacCormick will be acutely aware of this in Scotland , with its own legal heritage .
The traditional push towards harmonisation has been the internal market to which we can now add the aspirations of Tampere for a single area of European justice .
But harmonisation must respect subsidiarity - we have no need to rush towards uniformity of civil law in this area of product liability .
We should be aware that uniformity can stifle innovation and prevent adaptation to local or national circumstances and problems .
It is a truism that European law has been able to benefit from the ability to draw on rich comparative material of varying legal traditions in our different Member States .
It would be dangerous to stifle this by uniformity .
Research seems to show that our traditions are tending to converge slowly .
Let us perhaps be prepared to assist and guide that convergence and respect the conditionality of the further harmonisation which is integral to Professor MacCormick ' s proposals .
Mr President , I would like to join my colleagues in giving a warm welcome to Professor MacCormick ' s very realistic report .
In considering the whole issue of product liability we have to say that the current directive appears to have functioned well .
There is not a great deal of evidence that consumers are at the moment being seriously disadvantaged .
I would argue quite strongly that we have achieved a very fair and reasonable balance of interests .
I want to pick up the point made by my colleague Mr Wuermeling that we must take particular care about development risks in the environment within which we now find ourselves .
It was a crucial issue at the Lisbon Summit and new product innovation is one of the key competitive aspects of European business .
If our regulations on product liability stifle competitiveness and innovation , I suggest that consumers will be at a major disadvantage as well .
Consumers will be the ones to lose out , if a flow of competitive and innovative products is stifled .
So let me echo Mr MacCormick : there is a need for much more clearly-based factual evidence before we make changes to this legislation .
I therefore feel that it is notable and praiseworthy that the Commission has decided to review it .
This Green Paper represents a first step towards this review .
Amongst these principles , the first we should highlight is the importance of the manufacturer accepting , at least in certain areas , the development risks .
I come from a country , Spain , where consumer legislation dictates that the manufacturer bears responsibility for development risks .
There have been no bankruptcies among insurance companies or manufacturers , nor has technical progress been hampered as a result .
For too long the consumer has had to bear the full cost of this risk in the cause of progress .
The second principle consists of removing the burden of proof from the party that has suffered the damage .
We are talking about an objective responsibility and therefore the burden of proof imposed on the victim must be made as light as possible .
The third principle concerns setting levels of compensation .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Electricity
Mr President , what is the purpose of a directive on renewable forms of energy , or an own-initiative report from Parliament ?
The reasons for this are energy prices which do not incorporate the external costs , with the sizeable subsidies which are still available to the nuclear sector as well as the fossil-fuel sector .
The directive which is currently being prepared should , in my opinion , have two objectives .
We have many reasons to move in this direction .
Firstly , the protection of the environment , but also the creation of jobs .
We have studies , backed up with figures , to show that renewable energies create more jobs than conventional forms of energy .
We know that we must make Europe ready for a world renewable energy market and there are also geostrategic advantages to our reducing our dependence on regions which are often in crisis .
What must the cornerstones of this forthcoming directive be ?
It must , in the first place , be based on the Treaty articles relating to both the internal market and the environment .
It must have ambitious , clearly defined objectives at European level in the order of those given in the Commission White Paper , i.e. 12 % for energy and 23 % for electricity .
As regards the instruments to be implemented , my report advocates subsidiarity .
I believe it is too early to pass judgement on the various instruments that can be classified .
On the one hand , there are the fixed-price systems which have launched the renewable energy industry in Europe .
On the other hand , there are the trading systems which have just been created in the Netherlands and Denmark , where there are still many administrative and technical problems to resolve .
We therefore propose that the Commission makes an assessment of the various instruments in 2005 , and that , until that date , subsidiarity should be maintained and the Commission should refrain from regulating subsidies to the renewable sector .
I would argue that it is pointless to make cuts in subsidies to the renewable sector when there are much larger subsidies going to the nuclear and fossil-fuel sectors .
There is one last point which I wish to put forward , namely the need for a system for labelling and providing information on all forms of electricity .
In an internal market , the consumer should be informed , and this information should be provided for every form of energy , not just green electricity .
I would like to thank all the people who contributed to this report , which is the result of a real team effort , and I await their comments with interest .
Mr President , I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent piece of work .
We have what are per se excellent basic documents in the field of renewable energy sources , such as the White Paper referred to , which contains a brilliant critical analysis .
But , on balance , everyone is in favour .
Everyone says yes , we need these new sources of energy .
They are a fundamental component of the 21st century , of the 21st century way of thinking .
But everyone has slightly different ideas and , as a result , we often fail to find a standard line which will allow us to achieve these objectives .
The second point is that we tend to polarise , and that causes problems .
On the one hand , we say , there are the advocates of renewable energy sources , ecologically-minded , forward-looking people .
On the other hand , there are the energy suppliers , oil traders and oil producers , who want exactly the opposite .
All we are doing is fanning the flames of enmity .
I think we should put this enmity behind us and acknowledge that these renewable sources of energy only have one enemy .
That enemy is our ignorance of the fantastic opportunities which they offer us .
First , there are ecological advantages and , secondly , there are job opportunities .
Thirdly , I think that whatever we invest in this area is neither subsidy nor promotion but sensible investment from a national economic point of view .
We must recognise that .
Fourthly , we must bear in mind that sources of fossil fuels have been accompanied recently by price fluctuations ranging from 10 to 30 dollars a barrel .
Fifthly , more and more studies are implying that actual sources of fossil fuels are much smaller than we perceive them to be today .
Sixthly , we are conducting discussions throughout the world - and we can see this happening from Chechnya via the Gulf to Africa - about earth ' s remaining resources .
If we now recognise that you are also a bringer of peace , then we will probably have made a huge step if we accept this report tomorrow .
Mr President , Madam Vice-President , ladies and gentlemen , Parliament has basically been in agreement on this question since 1996 .
It was Parliament , may I remind you , which had to push the previous Commission in the direction of this policy .
It did not start with the White Paper , but with an initiative by Parliament , and I remember because I was the rapporteur at the time .
We need a much higher proportion of primary energy used .
We have already come a long way , but not far enough by a long chalk .
We need it for climatic reasons and for industrial policy reasons , because there is a global market to fill here .
In this respect , I should like to thank the rapporteur on behalf of the committee and note that , consequently , 80 % of the resolutions tabled are therefore uncontested .
For the rest , an aside : everyone still here this evening must have not renewable sources of energy but an inexhaustible supply of energy !
We are represented in accordance with the subject matter !
Unfortunately , I note that the report contains a number of statements which are incorrect , which violate the Treaty or which are politically untenable .
For example , elevating the feed-in system to a universal panacea is wrong .
We must make a distinction between these causes .
As a result , we and the Commission are of the opinion that the Member States should now be allowed to experiment .
It is too early to see one system as a universal panacea and dismiss another .
Secondly , the report also contradicts the Treaty at certain points .
This applies in particular to the statements on aid policy .
It is true that renewable energy needs aid now , and probably will for some time to come , in order to get started .
That is quite right and it complies with the Treaty .
My third comment also concerns a point at which the resolution does not comply with the Treaty .
We here in the European Union cannot impose mandatory obligations on the Member States .
The European Union has no legal basis and no credentials for doing so and , because of that , it cannot impose sanctions .
Anyway , that is precisely what the Lisbon Council has just agreed to reject in connection with the job markets .
That is why it is right to regard this as a matter of economic policy of common interest ; hence the burden sharing negotiations .
More importantly , I cannot agree when there is talk of the curse of the lowest bidder .
Statements like this show disdain for the consumer and disregard the principle of supply and demand .
In addition , as I am sure you will understand , we cannot get excited about new forms of bureaucracy , even if it comes along in the jewel-studded cloak of an EU agency .
That is why , Madam Vice-President , I have three recommendations to make to the Commission .
First : you should use your directive , the draft of which we are waiting for , to promote the use of all renewable sources of energy and , if possible , you could suggest a uniform development framework .
Secondly : as far as financial assistance is concerned , a distinction should be made between everyone and those who need this financial assistance .
The distinction is easy to make .
They need permanent protection .
We want both the competition and energy departments of the Commission to make a clear statement on that to the markets .
Mr President , I too should like to thank Mr Turmes on behalf of my Group for the excellent and detailed work contained in his report .
We certainly have no lack of reports .
So there is no shortage of reports and they have all been translated into every possible language .
What we need now are initiatives to implement our decisions .
We have decided that the share of renewable sources of energy should rise from 6 % to 12 % .
At present , if I remember the figures correctly , we are not yet even quite at 6 % , but at 5.4 % .
In any case , I am merely repeating the Commission ' s figures .
How can we do this ? Biomass and hydroelectric power account for 95 % of renewable energy sources in the European Union .
Wind , solar energy , photovoltaic energy etc. only account for 5 % !
I should like to ask you , Commissioner , to build a bridge with agricultural policy , to enter into an alliance .
There is , of course , the question of how we can finance this , but at least we have technical room for manoeuvre .
As far as renewable sources of energy and financing them at national level is concerned , I have just a few brief comments .
The systems are so different that they must , at all costs , be made compatible in the medium term , so that we can create a real European market here .
Secondly , aid must be degressive .
I can easily imagine , and here I do not share Mr Mombaur ' s view , that we may need to consider sanctions , otherwise the whole thing makes no sense .
For example , we undertook at Kyoto to adhere to certain quotas .
No one can be punished for failing to keep to the quotas .
Had we introduced the euro like that , if no sanctions had been imposed for failing to comply with requirements , the euro would not have been a success .
In the case of renewable sources of energy or the CO2 policy , nothing will be achieved in the long run without sanctions .
We cannot enter into commitments willy-nilly and then fail to honour them .
I keep coming back to this : without sanctions , this joint energy policy , because in the final analysis that is what it is , will not function .
It is perhaps an unpleasant thought , but it will not function otherwise .
Three points - firstly , the whole issue of a level playing field .
It seems to us essential that if we are going to give renewable energies the breathing space and the momentum that they merit , it is right to try and aim for a level playing field .
As long as those market distorting subsidies to fossil fuels continue we cannot realistically talk about a fair or level playing field in the European Union .
In that context we join with the rapporteur in feeling that some kind of special provisions concerning subsidies are merited as long as those market distorting subsidies continue elsewhere .
On targets , I very much side with Mr Linkohr .
We cannot be serious about this without trying to add teeth in some form , moral , financial or otherwise to the concept of targets .
We were not very happy with the early versions from the rapporteur because we felt the targets were there to almost micro-manage the market in renewable energy sources .
That is neither viable nor desirable , but a mixture of the pressure towards targets , combined with competition between effective renewable energy industries , seems to us to be the long-term approach we should all adopt .
Finally , I would make a plea on behalf of my group : let us not set up yet another agency .
Paragraph 22 of this report calls for the establishment of a European sustainable energy agency .
This Parliament and the European institutions have been spawning a blizzard of new agencies all over the European Union .
It does not necessary help us to follow the policies which we wish to follow - it could actually have the effect of ghettoising the policy altogether .
Mr President , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his hard work and particularly the excellent definition of renewables .
This directive should be solely directed towards supporting new renewable technologies that are not yet commercially viable .
I note that the Commission is proposing a review in 2005 but I would urge that you also ask the Member States to make annual reports on achieving the targets in the White Paper .
I would also like the directive not to establish any ceiling or limitation on direct support mechanisms chosen by the individual Member States .
It should also encourage fair and non-discriminatory network access as its most important item .
The directive should also contain mechanisms to discourage , as we have already heard , the Member States from their market distorting subsidies to traditional forms of energy , particularly fossil fuels and nuclear .
There are a lot of covert subsidies to the nuclear sector that have been there for a long time and that are long overdue for a considerable review if not a total ban .
Attempts to say that support for renewable energy is a distortion of the market in the context of the vast subsidies for nuclear and fossil fuels that exist in the European Union are totally spurious .
I hope that the Commissioner will really take that point to heart .
The directive should explicitly propose a system of support and advantages for the small and medium-sized companies in decentralised production and distribution of renewable energies .
It should include incentives allowing the Member States to clearly support advantages for the regions , especially rural areas , in respect to labour intensive green production .
Most importantly , the directive should propose mechanisms for the internalisation of external costs of traditional energy production .
I would like to make particular reference to the unsatisfactory rate of uptake in the UK , Ireland and France .
Here we can clearly see from empirical studies that network access is by far the best way to achieve high percentages of renewable energy rather than the other methods that have been undertaken in those countries .
Mr President , I believe that all of us are in agreement that the development of renewable energy sources is the way forward .
If we are serious about this , we must be prepared to make funds available for research and development in this area , both at national and European levels .
Parliament recently voted to maintain and increase funding for the SAVE programme .
In my own country of Ireland a total of EUR 125 million has been devoted to developing an environmentally sustainable energy sector .
I am pleased that the rapporteur identifies the links between the issue of renewable energy sources and wider policy considerations .
The creation of an internal market in electricity should provide consumers of electricity with real choice . The introduction of an element of competition in any industry should lead to more favourable pricing for the consumer .
While it is desirable to create a level playing field it may also be necessary to provide subsidies for certain types of energy in order to promote other objectives .
Clearly the development of renewables is linked to environmental objectives as well as issues of employment , regional development and the promotion of local initiatives .
I would like to see the development of small local initiatives which would strengthen rural development by the provision of , say , 20 to 30 jobs per project .
Such projects should not only be open to the business sector and local groups such as small locally-based co-ops should be assisted in creating such local enterprises .
This report states that support for renewable energy projects must not be viewed as a straightforward subsidy under the state aid rules .
What is important is that Member States be allowed to continue subsidising renewable energy sources which are not yet economically viable .
Apart from the obvious environmental and other benefits , this can actually be justified on competition grounds .
It is clear that there are serious distortions in the energy market with many hidden subsidies to both coal and oil generated energy .
It would be virtually impossible to quantify these subsidies which have been embedded in the industry over decades of generator construction .
We still face a significant challenge in meeting our commitments on limiting greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector under the Kyoto protocol while , at the same time , promoting growth within our economies .
All I have said so far is on the positive side but , on the negative side , the report specifically calls for peat to be excluded .
Peat power plants work very well indeed in my country and make an important contribution to Ireland ' s energy supply .
In addition to that , the report emphatically calls for the European imposition of an energy tax .
I am totally opposed to this approach and I reject this taxation .
Therefore , I regret to say that my final vote on this project will be seriously affected .
Since we are aware of this need , there is a set of relevant facts that we should consider .
Secondly , any support mechanism that is considered must be realistic and consistent , but must , above all , fit into a stable and appropriate legal framework if it is to achieve the desired effect .
Thirdly , renewable energies are characterised by the different situations from which the various Member States are starting , which means that any solution will have to adapt to these differences .
Fourthly , we must not place too many limits on the concept of renewable energy , although it does seem reasonable to impose certain restrictions on support actions for plants whose size and performance require them .
I shall finish by saying that the report by Mr Turmes , on which this House is about to vote , addresses my main concerns sufficiently .
Its content provides the necessary balance for us to be able to rate it positively , but our final position will depend on the outcome with regard to certain key points .
I would not like to finish without congratulating the rapporteur on his willingness to enter into dialogue and for his vigorous and thorough work .
The UK has a low proportion of electricity from renewable sources , I believe amongst the lowest .
Yet the studies in my home region have demonstrated considerable potential for renewable projects : wind , including offshore , small hydro , landfill gas , waste incineration , biofuels and photovoltaics .
In general terms , there is a need to build up an awareness amongst architects and potential customers of the technologies that are available .
Support for demonstration projects should be included in any directive . Larger developments often fail to get planning permission , sometimes because of public opposition .
More proactive planning guidance , preferably linked to regional renewable targets , and feasibility studies would be helpful additions to the directive .
Access to the grid system at fair prices is crucial .
The disincentive of high capital costs of connection to the grid from remote renewable sites and the prevention of transmission penalties are other issues which the directive should tackle .
I hope that the Commission will take note of these points .
I would urge support for the amendment to assist the promotion of renewables in the remote islands of the Community .
I am sure that this was an oversight in the drafting of the text .
Mr President , the chief aim of an internal electricity market must be fair play .
This aim is clearly visible in the Commission ' s preparatory act .
In his report , Mr Turmes , does not in all respects advocate the same way of thinking , however . The report does contain many good ideas .
The recorded aim of the Commission with regard to the promotion of renewables obviously has to be supported .
We really do have to invest in research into energy sources .
However , we must remember that a free energy market will have to be based in the future on viable , free competition , and not on favouring renewable energy sources by discriminating against the others .
All forms of electric power must have free access to the market .
The harmonisation of taxation and aid schemes is a different matter .
Electricity producers must be able to determine the prices at which they wish to sell .
Renewables can be made more competitive by increasing consumer choice .
In this respect the certification of electricity is an idea to be supported .
If we wish to pay more for electricity produced from wind power than from other sources , for example , then we should be allowed to do so .
To no good purpose , the report tries to define renewable energy by raising the question of peat as a special area .
The position with regard to peat cannot be determined according to the same standards as biogases , for example .
For that reason , peat must occupy its own energy class in future , so that its taxation can be determined on a level that is reasonable .
Mr President , I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on being open to dialogue on all areas connected to the report and to the amendments .
I think we must consider all matters related to renewable energies to be extremely important , bearing in mind the fact that we want to leave behind us a world which future generations will find inhabitable .
It is curious that we are slowly killing ourselves and yet the earth ' s contamination is not causing the alarm bells to ring . What can we do about it ?
I know that this is all easy to say and difficult to do , but unless we act immediately , within a few generations , we will be stretched to the limit .
My opinion is that we should start by differentiating between compensation and subsidies .
Therefore , as long as public administrations continue to take responsibility for repairing the damage caused by thermal or nuclear power stations , we will be subsidising these sources of energy at the expense of renewables .
Mr President , Commissioner de Palacio , ladies and gentlemen , to summarise today ' s debate , there are basically three issues at stake here .
First , the sustainability of energy sources .
Secondly , security of supply , which has a quite special effect as far as Europe is concerned , not least because of the unstable political situations in the countries which currently supply energy to Europe .
Thirdly , of course , the economy , because energy is a fundamental factor in our international competitiveness and we must therefore ensure that we have an economical supply of energy .
I personally come from Upper Austria and , at present , Upper Austria has broken the energy-saving and energy-renewing records .
Where I come from , renewable energy takes top priority , and Upper Austria has an energy savings agency which runs like clockwork .
I also think that research and development in this area need greater support .
I think that this management system is particularly significant for the future of energy supplies in Europe .
Mr President , firstly I would like to congratulate Mr Turmes on the report which he has prepared , as it will be of great use to the Commission ' s work .
In this respect , Parliament ' s contribution is an extremely important element in this process .
This House has always been forthright in its support for active policies designed to promote renewable energies .
I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my thanks to Mr Turmes for his work .
We all agree that renewable energies have to play a key role in guaranteeing our supply of energy , as well as making us less dependent on imports and in fulfilling the commitments we gave in Kyoto .
However , they can also help the EU ' s technological development and enable us to export clean technologies to other parts of the world .
I must point out that Mr Turmes ' s report fully concurs with these views .
I must , however , say to Mr Turmes that , despite what I have just said , we cannot consider peat to be a renewable energy .
I can assure you that all issues that have been highlighted here will be carefully considered in relation to the directive on which discussions will begin in the next few days .
Going into specific issues , almost all of the points made in Mr Turmes ' s report deserve our support and fully concur with our own studies .
I must repeat that the report stresses the importance of the objective of doubling , from 6 % to 12 % , the proportion of renewable energy sources in the gross domestic consumption of energy .
In the proposal for a directive , we hope to include some objectives chosen by countries , that is , individual objectives for each country in the European Union .
These would not be compulsory objectives , but ones which can produce results , at least from the political point of view , and I think that this would be a very important step .
I agree with Mr Turmes on the need to protect the different national systems in force at the time that this directive is adopted .
Let us state quite clearly that the proposal simply and straightforwardly seeks to stimulate production in the EU of electricity from renewable energies .
I would like to point out that I have taken careful note of Mr Linkohr ' s words on agricultural policy and the possibility of encouraging non-food production .
As a former agriculture minister , I am sensitive to these issues and this is one which , to a certain extent , is also covered in this proposal .
I would also like to point out that our objective in all of this is to have a safer and more reliable supply of energy , which treats the EU ' s environment with greater respect .
To conclude , Mr President , other speakers have mentioned repayment .
Mr Vidal-Quadras and Mr Valdivielso both mentioned this a while ago .
Renewable energies today are not competitive in relation to traditional energies , particularly as traditional energies have certain external costs which , of course , are not internalised .
Support must be given to renewable energies .
My personal view - although there are other ideas on this subject - is that , as things stand , we cannot write off other energies , for reasons of competitiveness and growth .
We can , however , support renewable energies , precisely because they are obviously based on respect for the environment and on reducing emissions .
In this respect , we must be able to ensure that those who do commit themselves to renewables have a fair return on their investments .
We obviously have to create a stable framework that will enable investors to make investments which require a sufficient number of years to cover their repayment .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
( The sitting was closed at 11.10 p.m. )
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of yesterday ' s sitting have been distributed .
Are there any comments ?
Madam President , I think anyone reading page 6 of the Minutes might get the wrong impression from the juxtaposition of my speech and Mr Vander Taelen ' s .
I want to stress two points .
First , Mr Vander Taelen may disapprove of my position on the European Union , but it can in no way justify the wholly unfounded personal attacks against me by the Chairman of the Canadian parliamentary delegation .
Anyway , Mr Vander Taelen admitted he did not personally witness the incident .
Secondly , I simply cannot understand how Mr Vander Taelen could have got the impression I was against enlargement .
I have never said that .
On the contrary , I have stated time and again in this House that enlargement is an historic necessity .
I have just pointed out that the institutions in their present form undoubtedly constitute an obstacle to enlargement , but that is an entirely different issue .
Of course I am in favour of the enlargement of the European Union to the East .
Thank you , Mr Berthu .
We will scrupulously check whether there are grounds for amending the Minutes so that everything is as it should be .
Are there any further comments ?
He did not say that .
He simply said " of Greek citizens " , in other words people who are resident in Greece .
I say this because Mr Katiforis is not here and so that the Minutes can be corrected accordingly .
Absolutely .
I remember that too .
That will be corrected .
( The Minutes were approved )
Madam President , this is not about the Minutes but about a point of order .
I am aware that this is a very tricky business and that we must prevent any half-baked stories from getting into the papers .
The question on quite a few people ' s lips is : what is to become of this report ?
Will it be made public ?
I understand that the chairmen of the groups have been able to have a look at the report .
I would like to ask you what you are intending to do with it .
Will you find a way of making it available to the press or to those who favour doing so , appending a few comments , yes or no ?
I believe we must adopt an open and transparent strategy here , so that we can say in all candour how we dealt with the funding that was made available to the groups .
It is standard procedure , Mr Staes .
The Court of Auditors sent me this preliminary report and it is going out to consultation .
I have in fact circulated the report to the Chairment of the groups asking them to let me have their comments so that we can forward them to the Court of Auditors .
After that has been done , the Court of Auditors will draw up its final report .
I do not think it is up to the President of Parliament to issue this report to the press .
This is not a lack of transparency .
It is not up to me to do it .
I have done what I had to do , which was to send it to each Group Chairman concerned .
Madam President , I learned yesterday that Mr Akim Birdal , the former chairman of the Turkish Committee on Human Rights has been reimprisoned .
Mr Birdal had asked to be released on health grounds , after being attacked .
That request was refused and he is in prison because , some time ago , he dared to suggest seeking a political solution to the Kurdish question .
Quite , Mr Wurtz .
We raised this matter yesterday and I am completely in agreement about approaching the Turkish Government along those lines .
The " Echelon " system
The European Union must respect the fundamental rights which are guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights and which result from the common constitutional traditions of the Member States on general principles of Community law .
It is common knowledge that work is in progress , in which this House is fully involved , and whose aim is to produce a Charter of Fundamental Rights which must apply within the Union .
Having said this , the presidency considers that everything must be done to create an area of freedom , security and justice at European level .
Our aim is to build a more open and secure Europe founded on an attachment to our common fundamental values .
In this respect , it will sometimes be necessary to allow telecommunications to be intercepted when strictly essential to protect these values and in the interests of justice .
This interception , which must be in proportion and have clearly defined limits , must pursue specific aims such as combating organised crime .
In certain clearly specified and truly exceptional cases , the interception of telecommunications may be justified under these conditions .
These areas are police cooperation , judicial cooperation in criminal matters , Europol , Schengen and the initial discussions currently in progress on data protection within the Third Pillar .
The Committee raised these matters and I have been asked to comment on them in the letter from your President .
In the area of police cooperation , the Council adopted a resolution on 17 January 1995 on the lawful interception of telecommunications .
This resolution , published in the Official Journal , contains a list of specifications for the Member States authorising them to lawfully intercept telecommunications with regard to network operators and service providers .
This list allows each Member State to adapt its own national legislation so as to identify and overcome the difficulties in introducing technical specifications for interception in modern telecommunications systems .
In November 1995 , a code of conduct containing this same list of specifications indicated in the resolution was established between the Fifteen and Norway .
The governments of the United States of America , Canada and Australia informed the Council that they would not sign this code of conduct but that they would follow an identical policy .
In 1999 , the Council submitted an initiative on the lawful interception of telecommunications with regard to new technologies for assessment .
Immediately after the start of this work , the Council consulted the European Parliament on this proposal on which this House issued an opinion in May 1999 .
The Council is continuing the work on this issue but has not yet adopted a final position .
However , we are aware of the concerns about the negative aspects , which the proliferation of encryption services for confidentiality purposes may have in the fight against certain forms of crime .
This is why it was decided to closely monitor the degree of use of encryption technologies , particularly by and for organised crime .
In the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters , particular attention should be paid to the draft convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the Member States .
Over four years of negotiations on this draft convention are nearly complete .
The Justice and Home Affairs Council , in its meeting on 27 March , examined the most important remaining questions , including those on the interception of telecommunications .
I am very pleased to announce that a full political agreement on measures for interception was achieved at this meeting .
We therefore hope that the adoption of the act establishing the convention will take place during the Justice and Home Affairs Council in May .
Measures have also been specified on data protection in the Europol Convention .
It must be stressed that Europol does not have powers of investigation and does not carry out work of an operational nature .
Rather , Europol ' s mission is to analyse the data supplied by the Member States or third parties .
It cannot gather this data directly .
I will clarify this for you . It is the responsibility of each Member State to send data to Europol .
In this way the general rules on the protection of data sent to Europol by the Member States are respected .
The convention therefore states that the latter must answer the question of whether the data has been properly gathered in the Member States .
It must be stressed that Europol cannot , on its own , determine if the data sent by a Member State has been properly gathered .
Each national supervisory authority has an essential role to play in this area .
I must also speak briefly about the data protection rules within the Schengen Information System .
This system provides for an authority responsible for protecting personal data .
Full protection of the interests of individuals is therefore ensured in accordance with the instruments ratified by the Member States .
Finally , I must mention data protection within the Third Pillar .
The Member States and the Commission are examining this issue in order to determine to what extent data protection should be provided in a horizontal perspective for the whole of the Third Pillar .
These ideas are still being developed .
However , I can tell you that the Portuguese presidency , with full respect for the Community mechanisms , will duly inform the European Parliament about future developments in this work .
This , briefly , is the Council ' s position on the work in progress or already concluded in the area of the lawful interception of telecommunications .
To conclude , I must say that we fully understand the political concerns underlying this Parliament initiative .
Madam President , first of all , I am delighted that the Council and the Commission have delivered a clear opinion today regarding the Echelon problem .
In the past , a great many parliamentary questions have been simply ignored .
The present statement is therefore a step in the right direction , albeit only the first of what need to be quite a few such steps .
We must now calmly consider what measures are to be taken in order to protect the European economy effectively .
Less helpful in this regard are the hasty proposals tabled by the four smaller groups in this House .
What we have here is not Huxley ' s " brave new world " taking shape , but merely industrial espionage .
Who , I wonder , would call for a committee of inquiry ?
The American President or the head of the British secret service , who is not even known in Britain ?
What is this committee supposed to find out ?
The fact that Echelon exists and is also used for industrial espionage is something which we have known at least since the interview with former CIA Director Mr Woolsey on 7 March of this year .
No , the time for investigations and debate is past . Now , we must act .
In addition to frank words with our American and British friends , we need a European encryption system , independent of the United States , with which to protect our data .
We must put this subject on the agenda of the next session of the World Trade Conference .
In contrast to a committee of inquiry , which in this case would serve no purpose , this would be a constructive initiative .
Madam President , I have issued this statement on behalf of Mr von Boetticher who , because of a bereavement , had to travel back to Germany yesterday .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , we are in a difficult situation regarding the decision which we now have to make after hearing the Council and the Commission .
Just how difficult the situation is , you can see from two remarks made in the last three minutes .
Mrs Klamt says that we all know that the United States of America engages in industrial espionage .
The Commissioner has just explained to us that of course the United States does not engage in industrial espionage ; they clarified this in writing only yesterday .
So what is to be done , then ?
We then said that we wanted to hear what the Council and the Commission had to say before deciding how to proceed further .
I should like to say that what I have heard this morning from both institutions gives rise to more questions than answers .
( In fact , there are no two ways about it , we shall have to make these decisions . )
Do we want a committee of inquiry ? Do we want a non-permanent committee ?
I do not know whether we were well advised to say that we wanted a committee of inquiry because , if such a committee were to be set up , its legal basis would have to be impeccably clarified .
In this regard , too , there are still questions to be answered .
I was therefore of the opinion that it was too early for a committee of inquiry .
First I would like to thank the President of the Council for his statement that the system we are debating is unacceptable in principle .
That is something , at least .
Having said that , I was expecting the Council to give us some details about the problem we are trying to deal with today .
I have to say I am disappointed .
To use a sporting metaphor , the representatives of the Council and the Commission have been doing what I call the fencing side-step .
It is very effective in fencing , but I dislike it in politics .
I have no regrets whatsoever about having taken the initiative , with my group , in calling for a parliamentary committee of inquiry into this matter .
I think the stature of the European Parliament will be enhanced by adopting such an initiative and I hope the whole of Parliament will support that position .
I also want to point out that while speeches on the principle are of course interesting , we have to have the courage to talk about the facts .
We have since discovered that this system does exist , but we do not know exactly how it works .
There is good reason to believe that a European Union Member State - the United Kingdom , to make no bones about it - is collaborating in the system .
I expected the Council Presidency to make a statement about that .
Is the British Government being open about it ?
Is it collaborating in the system or not ?
I think we have a right to know .
The Commission is responsible for ensuring that Community law is observed .
We have good reason to believe that Community law is being flouted in this case .
I am really very worried .
If this Parliament seeks to represent the people of Europe , it really must clarify this situation .
We will not be doing that if we routinely wait for initiatives from the Council and the Commission .
I want to remind the House that we passed a resolution eighteen months ago calling for a proper open debate on this type of monitoring technology .
In view of what I have just heard , there is no genuinely open debate .
Secondly , we said effective economic protection systems and encryption must be adopted .
Now we are told the same thing all over again , eighteen months later .
Are we going to pass another resolution in Strasbourg repeating the 1998 resolution ?
I honestly believe that it is now too late for that .
Therefore , Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , we must move into a higher gear and it is this Parliament ' s duty , as the third institution of the Union , to spearhead the attack .
Madam President , I actually think the speeches from the Council and the Commission were most enlightening .
The United States now acknowledges the existence of the ' Echelon ' system .
Tongues are being loosened in certain Union governments . The press is crammed full of details about this all-pervasive electronic monitoring network .
And yet , how embarrassed the Council and the Commission sounded !
What tangled comments they made to avoid answering our questions .
Let me restate the problem : by virtue of privileged and very special links , a strategic ally and a Member State are covertly joining forces to monitor private communications and spy on companies in other Union countries .
Where is this taking us ?
With friends like that , who needs enemies ?
Secondly , apart from the formal exchange of correspondence the Commissioner mentioned , what serious action has it undertaken with regard to the United States Government on this matter and with what outcome ?
Thirdly , what can you tell us about the role played by the United Kingdom in this system , or at least the role it intends to play in the future ?
Whether people like it or not , the ' Echelon ' file is now open and it will remain open .
After the European Parliament , the matter has been taken up by other parliaments and indeed the United States Congress , which I have contacted , because what we are doing is not anti-American .
Our fellow citizens have been alerted .
So I want to warn Members who are still hesitant that trying to stop this movement now would be a rearguard action , and would probably be severely condemned by democratic opinion .
In tabling the call for a committee of inquiry , over a quarter of the Members of this Parliament have made that choice .
I think Parliament will increase its stature by taking up this case by a majority .
Madam President , I shall be very brief as I only have one minute .
We would rather not believe this affair is indicative of a general attitude towards the European Union .
Under the circumstances we are stunned by the Council ' s statement .
It dealt with data transmission inside Europe , the Schengen Information System and Europol , none of which were really relevant .
Actually , the question to the Council is extremely simple : are we going to demand the cessation of the ' Echelon ' network ' s activities , which violate human rights and freedoms ?
That is obviously a shock , not in terms of our technical knowledge of encryption , but in terms of our political beliefs .
We have believed in the great market as if it were God , and competition and competitiveness , all under the governance of the WTO .
And now we find out that people are cheating and spying on this market , creating distortions of competition .
We thought Mr Haider ' s Austria was endangering our freedom .
But it is through Mr Tony Blair ' s Britain , Glyn Ford ' s Britain , that fifteen thousand agents , stationed in Gibraltar , Cyprus , and even on British territory , are spying on us .
So , Madam President , are you still prepared to go to London ?
Will you ever go to Sydney again ?
Will you ever go to Ottawa or Wellington again ?
And we thought there was solidarity in Europe .
Now we find that Britain ' s solidarity extends across the Atlantic and across the Pacific Ocean .
We thought we were building Europe , making Europe stronger .
But stronger than whom ?
Stronger in opposition to Iraq ?
In opposition to the Serbs ?
Stronger in opposition to nations and nationalism ?
So is the Catholic Europe of Gasperi , Schuman and Adenauer going to apologise ?
Apologise to the people spied on , for all that evangelism ?
' Echelon ' is the French word for rung , and I am afraid this ' Echelon ' is taking us down to the bottom rung and we will end up at dignity level zero .
Poor old European Commission !
Poor old European Council of Ministers !
Poor old European Union !
Mr President , Mr Gomes for the Council and Mr Liikanen for the Commission this morning have both made very clear statements .
As a UK Member of this Parliament I understand other Members ' concerns .
This morning , and in recent days in particular , we have read and heard a lot of allegations .
Even today we have heard talk of James Bond , of American espionage and we have had the rantings of the madman to my left a few moments ago .
But today , and in the Citizens ' Rights Committee , we have had few real facts because of the secrecy .
That is , after all , the nature of intelligence and military information work .
If it was not secret and we all knew about it , it would not serve the purpose for which it would be intended and necessary .
As Mr Liikanen has said , everything done in the United Kingdom is in line with a proper legal framework .
Everything is subject to close parliamentary scrutiny in the House of Commons .
We have very tight controls , both independent controls and control that emanates from the Secretary of State with the full consent of the United Kingdom Government .
I therefore have three questions .
The first is to the Council and the Commission . What does the term ' fair trade ' mean when major American companies can gain unlawful advantages thanks to privileged information provided by this system ?
How do the Council and the Commission think the USA would react if it knew that Europe could intercept the communications of its president , elected representatives and people ?
Finally , how can we defend ourselves against this threat ?
The Commissioner has spoken of work on cryptography , which was also mentioned in Parliament ' s last recommendation .
However , what specifically has been done to reinforce the cryptography system and to invest in European technology which is our best defence against this threat ?
Legislation must be updated and harmonised and supervisory authorities simplified and consolidated and , of course , new technologies are needed to protect telecommunications from disproportionate and unjustified interference .
This is a complex assembly of measures which have only been timidly , belatedly and in part announced by the Council and the Commission .
Mr President , because so many questions have unfortunately remained unanswered today , I should like to ask a number of further questions and request that the Council and the Commission answer these .
This then provided us with the notorious Infopol documents .
How great is the damage which has already been caused to the European economy ?
Are there companies in addition to Thomson and the Airbus consortium which have sustained damage ?
How will the Commission and the Council respond to the answer from the Americans , which was read out today and which clearly contradicts what , for example , ex-CIA director Mr Woolsey has stated ?
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I have noted your concerns with great interest .
I should like to quickly make the following points .
Firstly , I did refer , more than once , specifically to the Echelon system .
I unequivocally condemned this and stated that the Council cannot accept the creation or existence of a system for intercepting telecommunications which does not respect the laws of the Member States .
Mr Wiebenga said that I did not clearly and specifically condemn Echelon .
I did do so and I do so again .
It is clearly apparent from this debate that the key issue is not whether or not a system for intercepting telecommunications exists but what use is made of this system .
If we had any specific information on this , the Council would not hesitate to adopt a clear position .
I can only answer the Member ' s second question in writing , as I do not have precise information on this .
I would also like to tell this House that the concerns voiced here are of course shared by the presidency .
Therefore , at the next Justice and Home Affairs Council on 29 to 30 May , the Portuguese presidency will ensure that the Council debates this issue so that we can adopt a position .
We will keep Parliament constantly informed of developments in this respect .
President , can I first thank Parliament for the discussion .
I think there is one point which has been raised by a few Parliamentarians which is fundamentally important , namely to guarantee that there will be strong European encryption products .
It is very important to increase the awareness of the European citizens and companies that electronic communications need to be encrypted to guarantee confidentiality .
Here , there have been programmes for eighteen months .
The European research programmes have been relatively successful and it is recognised also in the discussions in other countries that European competence in this area is confirmed .
Secondly , to the question of Mr van Velzen on the software and data privacy in telecommunications .
Mrs Berger asked whether some companies have been losing contracts because of espionage .
No companies have contacted the Commission on that issue .
As to the question about the United States and the UK : the reason why we asked for clarification recently was the interviews which were given by a former official of the intelligence agency of the United States .
For that reason we contacted the United States government and asked for clarification and what I said here was their reply to that very issue .
Finally , these are very important and sensitive areas and we must be very firm that confidentiality and privacy in telephone and telecommunications can be guaranteed .
It is essential to have clear , detailed rules on the subject especially as the technology available for users is continually becoming more sophisticated " .
I think this decision is very clear .
The Commission will , in all its actions , respect these principles and we will not fail to act under the obligations of the Treaty if any Community law is breached .
Thank you , Commissioner .
I have received four motions for resolutions pursuant to Article 37 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place during the next part-session .
Decision by the Patent Office on the cloning of human beings
The next item is the statement from the Commission on the decision by the European Patent Office on the cloning of human beings .
After the granting of this patent , a number of concerns have been raised , both here in Parliament and also by organisations such as Greenpeace , about the true scope of this patent .
On behalf of the Commission , I should like to say that the Commission shares these concerns .
It seems clear to everyone involved that this patent should not have been granted in the form it was .
The European Patent Office has issued a press statement to that effect .
I know that there have been some among you here today who believe that the European Patent Office has , at best , been economical with the truth or at worst has sought to seriously mislead the public .
You have a joint motion before you today which includes such charges .
Therefore , I cannot give you authoritative information on the actions of the European Patent Office in this particular case .
Irrespective of the cause of the problem , it is clear , as I have mentioned just now , that the patent should not have been granted in its current form .
Therefore the question is : what does the Commission intend to do about it ?
That is the reason why I am here today .
Some oppositions to this patent have already been filed .
However , if the European Patent Office follows its usual rules for oppositions then this is unlikely to bring any changes to this patent before December 2000 and perhaps even later than that .
Such a delay in correcting what is , in effect , an admitted error , is clearly undesirable .
I have therefore written to the European Patent Office in Munich requesting that it should explore every possibility to bring about a speedier resolution of this issue .
Now , the European Patent Office said that such a preliminary opinion will be without prejudice to the final ruling of the opposition division in this case .
But the Office assures me that proceedings will speedily lead to conclusions , subject to respecting the rights of the parties to be heard .
I am happy to make available to you , President , copies of both my letter to the European Patent Office and its reply to the Commission .
Let me therefore conclude by reiterating that the Commission , like everyone else , regrets that this patent has been granted in its present form .
We have taken action which - based upon the full cooperation of the European Patent Office - will , I believe , bring about a speedy resolution of this unfortunate occurrence .
This is a flagrant violation of human dignity .
Many people said at the time that these clarifications were quite unnecessary and that a patent of this kind would never be granted anyway .
We now see how important these clarifications were .
The European Patent Office has incorporated the European Union ' s directive into its own directives .
It is not , in fact , bound directly by the Council ' s and Parliament ' s directive but has incorporated word for word what we decided upon at the time into its implementing rules .
What has happened in this connection is therefore a flagrant breach of the European Patent Office ' s own rules .
It must also meet with vigorous protest in the European Parliament .
It is not , however , a question of the directive we adopted in 1998 being a bad one .
It is a question of its needing to be applied better .
We stated clearly at the time that we are in favour of biotechnology and approve of the opportunities it presents , but we want to see clear , ethically based limits .
There is also something else which requires clarification . The European Parliament has always taken a clear stand , not only against the patenting of techniques which violate human dignity , but also against such techniques themselves .
The Group of the European People ' s Party has therefore tabled Amendment No 4 in order once again to make it clear that we are not going back on this .
We shall , in any case , vote in favour of this resolution because the European Parliament must send out a clear signal in this regard .
As soon as the course of events became known , my group tabled an oral question on the matter in order to obtain clarification of the questions of principle which had been raised and of the inevitable consequences .
However , the question disappeared without trace in the course of this House ' s business .
Instead of the required answers , we have today received an explanation from the Commission which cannot be the last word as far as the European Parliament is concerned .
Why do I mention this ?
That would lead to a disastrous situation in which the principles of the inviolability of the human being and of human dignity would be completely lost .
Clearly , everything must be done in order to completely do away with Patent No EP 69 53 51 and any similar gaffes .
Clearly we must move as quickly as possible to close the legal loophole constituted by the flawed European patent .
Obviously , the development of biotechnology and of all new techniques must be subject to increased public supervision .
In this way , the European Parliament is confronted with a special task requiring the preparation of an annual report on the work of the European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies .
It is just as clear to my group and to myself that the genetic inheritance of humanity must remain common property and should not be sold off on the floor of the stock exchange .
We only use biotechnology in a responsible way when we respect its ethical limits and make the genetic code accessible to researchers throughout the world .
Moreover , everyone must adhere to this .
Mr President , European Patent No EP 69 53 51 has been a great shock to us . It amounts to deliberately awarding a patent for the breeding of human beings .
The genetically modified human being would himself be degraded to the status of a product of genetic technology , and that would be a flagrant affront to human dignity .
This patent is no isolated case , however .
It is only the tip of the iceberg or a Pandora ' s box which has been open for a long time .
The Patent Office has awarded a whole range of patents on human genetic make-up and thus breached the regulations of the European Patent Agreement .
Parts of the human genetic make-up have , quite intolerably , been declared to be , and commercialised as , the invention and the property of third parties .
We must vehemently oppose this commercialisation of human genes and these flagrant violations of human dignity .
This also means , however , that we need to investigate the patenting of parts of the human genetic make-up and of genes themselves , which is also made possible by the directive on patenting .
Mr President , the public alarm at the granting of this patent is , I feel , totally justified .
Secondly , there is a deficiency in the law : it is not possible for the European Patent Office not to have any links with the Commission or be part of the structure of the European Union .
Thirdly and most importantly , we are considering an issue which is at the very root of our civilisation .
We must be united , determined and resolute in our reaction , remembering that the embryo is a unique human being .
Mr President , I would thank the Commission for its statement and would urge it to file an official objection to this patent .
The Council should give the Commission the mandate to do this .
In justification of this , I would point out that it must be the Commission ' s job to enforce the directive on bio-patents .
It is debatable whether this directive , for which I was the rapporteur , is in fact a suitable tool for managing the problems involved .
It would have been helpful if whoever was giving vent to his indignation had taken the trouble to read the patent .
These are two clear infringements of the directive on bio-patents .
How one might now use this as an opportunity to again cast doubt upon the directive without having read the patent or the directive , I really cannot imagine .
Hence , my request to Parliament to the effect that we should not again cast doubt upon the directive , as Mrs Breyer thinks we have to .
It is now , therefore , a question not of again bringing the directive into question but of enforcing it .
Mr President , I must begin by explaining that I have no association at all with Edinburgh University , but I think that it is important to stress their bona fides .
It is , after all , one of my own country ' s most distinguished universities .
When they sought and obtained this patent , which they did for entirely lawful purposes , they did so in good faith .
I have seen no evidence at all at this stage of anything more than error on the part of the Patent Office .
Of course , I would like to add that that is something which is of serious concern .
But until there is something more , I think it appropriate that the wilder claims and suggestions should be ignored .
My understanding is that the patent error can be corrected either by the patent owner applying to correct the document or by a third party filing an opposition which I understand has already been done .
In other words , what we are talking about here is an amendment to cut out the offending elements of the patent , thereby rendering it lawful , and not its revocation in its entirety .
I believe that the work which is being carried out in Edinburgh is not permitted by national law in some other Member States .
Mr President , may I begin by thanking Members of this Parliament very much indeed for the questions that they have put and the comments that they have made .
Perhaps you will allow me to pass a few comments on what the various Members of this Parliament have said .
May I begin by saying in reply to Mr Rothley that indeed the Commission has reserved to itself the right to oppose the patent in a formal way .
As I have said earlier this morning , I wrote a letter on behalf of the Commission to the European Patent Office .
I have no objection whatsoever to making that letter public .
So , as far as that goes , Mr Rothley may rest assured that the Commission has reserved that right to itself .
I should then like to support Mr Liese who has emphasised that there is nothing wrong with the directive .
I agree with him . I think that the directive is a good one .
Indeed , Mr Rothley himself has said that the directive is the first of its kind in the world and that it has received universal acclaim .
Certainly if I look at paragraph five of the directive where it says that certain processes are not to be considered patentable , then it seems to me that the directive is perfectly clear .
Mr Blokland has said that the directive is unclear and inconsistent and certainly the Commission will be very interested in a substantiated view of that statement .
It was also mentioned by Frau Gebhardt that the cloning of human beings should be forbidden .
Well , President , it is forbidden .
May I draw the attention of Mrs Gebhardt to the fact that the directive specifically forbids that .
It seems to me that that is all we need to do , provided , of course , that the directive is properly applied .
The last issue I should like to deal with is the matter of the Community patent .
Several speakers this morning have spoken about the European patents .
Now , a European patent is what the European Patent Office grants .
The proper term to use is a Community patent .
In other words it is one application made to the European Patent Office in Munich but that office would then grant a Community patent and that would apply at one go to the whole European Union .
We are working on that .
I should like to say to Frau Gebhardt and Mr De Clercq who mentioned this that we are certainly working hard at realising the possibility of having a Community patent .
It is not an easy thing , principally because the European Patent Office is not a Community institution .
So what we want the European Patent Office to do is something on behalf of the European Commission while the Office itself is not a Community institution .
That presents us with certain legal problems and we are trying to solve them .
It is indeed true that the language problems are considerable .
Mr President , I just wanted some further clarification .
Having kept a critical eye on the way in which the legislation relating to the directive on biotechnological inventions was developing , I am perfectly aware of what this contains .
I would merely ask you to be aware of this .
What I in fact said is that I should like absolute clarification that these are in fact the contents .
That is a quite different statement from the one you attributed to me .
I have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to Article 37 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure .
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
( The sitting was suspended at 10.55 a.m. and resumed at 11.05 a.m. )
Vote
Mr President , I know that there are to be no votes on the opinions which have been submitted by the various committees .
A mistake has nonetheless crept into our opinion .
I do not want there to be a mistake here , even if we are not voting on it .
The last part of section 4 of our opinion , following the words " Community action programmes should cooperate " , is to be deleted .
The Committee voted to remove this section , but it has nonetheless been included by mistake .
I want this part to be removed and I want to give notice of the fact now , before we proceed to the vote .
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
Motion for a resolution ( B5-0289 / 2000 ) by Mrs Jackson and Mr Blokland , on behalf of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy , on aeroplane hushkits
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
Joint motion for a resolution on Mediterranean policy
Concerning Amendments Nos 4 and 5 :
Mr President , the oral amendment which I am about to read out replaces Amendment No 4 and Amendment No 5 .
( Parliament adopted the joint resolution )
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
Joint motion for a resolution on the decision of the European Patent Office on the cloning of human beings
Concerning Amendment No 4 :
Mr President , excuse me if I am a bit hoarse , but I have a cold .
The Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance has requested a split vote on this amendment .
I think that the first part of the amendment is uncontroversial , but there is a linguistic problem in the second part .
I think it is a translation-related problem .
It is therefore important for us to adapt the German language version to the wording also chosen for the Fifth Framework Programme on Research .
In this case , the English text is the original , and the German should read ' verbrauchende Embryonenforschung ' , which are the words also decided upon by Parliament for the Framework Programme on Research .
It is not , therefore , a question of tightening up Parliament ' s position but of emphasising what we have already decided .
The German must therefore read ' verbrauchende Embryonenforschung ' .
( Parliament adopted the joint resolution )
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE - Haug report ( A5-0070 / 2000 )
This is why I oppose this procedure , and I hope that I will be able to improve conditions for pensioners and the elderly during the next few years .
Mr President , I have naturally voted for the Haug report on the budgetary guidelines , but I would particularly like to stress the welcome reinstatement of natural disasters , confirmed by this morning ' s vote .
So it is with great pleasure that I have voted for paragraphs 21 and 34 .
My hope is that they will be implemented rapidly , particularly for the forestry sector , which is experiencing structural difficulties and has experienced a drastic reduction in supply .
I think that the Union ' s natural role would be to dedicate itself to this , and I hope we can build on this report to make Parliament and the Commission aware of the need for intervention .
- ( SV ) We have voted against a number of points in Mrs Haug ' s report on the guidelines for the 2001 budgetary procedure .
The biggest challenge confronting the European Union over the next few years is enlargement to include the countries in Eastern and Central Europe .
Enlargement will be an expensive business in many ways .
It is therefore important that the EU should set aside large sums in this connection , and not only accession aid .
In spite of this , enlargement is not mentioned in Mrs Haug ' s report .
Instead , " the social and cultural dimension of Europe " is chosen as the most important point to be taken up in the guidelines for the 2001 budget .
We think that the EU should devote its energies to those problems which the Member States cannot solve themselves , that is to say the cross-border issues .
Cultural policy and social policy are very important political areas but ought not , on the whole , to be subjects of common legislation .
Aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo is taken up in Mrs Haug ' s report as another priority area , which is something we support wholeheartedly .
However , we think that the resources needed for Kosovo should be found from the aid given to tobacco cultivation and to other production in the context of the common agricultural policy .
As liberals , we believe that agricultural policy should be adapted to the market and made less bureaucratic .
If Parliament is serious about enlargement eastwards , efforts must be made to cut back considerably on the costs of agriculture .
All direct aid given to agricultural production ought to gradually be abolished .
The EU plays an important role when it comes to employment , especially through the single market .
We would nonetheless emphasise that unemployment cannot be reduced only by means of political decisions at European level .
. ( ES ) I would like to congratulate Mrs Haug on her excellent work and say that I agree with her when she highlights job creation as a priority for the Union .
The Committee on Fisheries does not want more money .
We simply wish to be named in the guidelines , because what is not named does not exist , and fishing exists , and is even a common policy .
Fishing is crucial to maintaining employment and the economy in the peripheral European regions which depend on it .
This industry also generates numerous land-based jobs , in the processing industry and in the dockyards .
The cheapest jobs are those which do not have to be created because they have not already disappeared .
It is better to support activities that already create employment than to have to invest huge amounts , later on , in the creation of new industries .
We in the Committee on Fisheries believe that the international fisheries agreements deserve explicit budgetary support , so that the Community fleet may continue its activities and the economies of the fishing regions do not reach crisis point .
In the process of reaching an agreement we will therefore see to it that the Union ' s support for fishing is consolidated and increased .
During the current budgetary procedure we will also highlight our concern that fishing resources be conserved and working and safety conditions in that industry improved .
It is imperative that new priorities are given new financial resources .
In the current situation , the financing of Kosovo ' s reconstruction and the Stability Pact for the Balkans requires a comprehensive review of the financial perspective .
Under no circumstances can the approach contained in the report of a cut , albeit fair , in all the budgetary categories be accepted in order to respond to the current requirements .
We do not agree with this approach and therefore cannot approve the report .
Ferber report ( A5-0068 / 2000 )
There is too much staff-related expenditure .
Haug and Ferber reports ( A5-0070 and 0068 / 2000 )
We condemn the priority accorded by the rapporteur to the financing of policies newly introduced in the Treaty of Amsterdam .
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group denounces the federalist integration promoted throughout this report , which calls for growing Community powers in justice and home affairs .
We consider it iniquitous to seek to finance the reconstruction of Kosovo on the backs of the farmers , and unacceptable to try to make people believe the problem should be framed as a conflict of duty .
Such trickery deserves to be denounced .
On the contrary , Europe must maintain agricultural spending and possibly moderate spending on other budget headings , where there are margins .
It should be remembered here that , in 2003 , the mid-term analysis planned at the Berlin Summit in the context of Agenda 2000 will be known .
It is unacceptable and irresponsible that , ten months after the end of the conflict , we still do not have any reliable estimates of the region ' s needs .
Taking natural disasters as an example , it is deplorable that there should no longer be specific reference to vital reforestation .
Resolution on " hushkits " ( B5-0289 / 2000 )
This is because the engines which the company concerned plans to use have a by-pass ratio of less than three and so would be excluded from EU airspace under the Regulation as it stands .
This regulation provides for the banning , as from May 2000 , of certain noisy aircraft equipped with noise reduction devices known as ' hushkits ' .
The civil aviation industry is experiencing annual growth of some 6 % and this is expected to double in 10 years !
This has to be accompanied by a progressive reduction in noise ascribable to aircraft . The noise issue is equally topical in American airports .
Stricter rules on aircraft noise must be established at international level , within the ICAO . That is stressed in the resolution .
In 1999 , the regulation was suspended for a year . It will be implemented in May with a large number of exemptions .
The latest Euro-American talks suggest this conflict is not about to be settled . On top of everything else , the Americans have lodged an appeal with the ICAO .
The American industry exerts enormous pressure and the situation is distorted by the prospect of the elections .
But how can anyone defend such exemptions on the pretext that there is disagreement ?
Did we tell French and Belgian chocolate manufacturers the directive would be suspended or there would be exemptions ?
Have we told hunters the ' birds ' directive is on the back-burner or exemptions can apply because there is disagreement ?
What is the point of a legal text , months of consultation , drafting , work in committee , if it is not to be implemented ?
Is the European Union really just there to serve the multinationals and big business ?
This is not a lot of fuss about nothing .
The Union should not be afraid of American threats and retaliatory measures .
A strong message is needed so that the international community can get the measure of the strength of European convictions in the battle against noise .
Resolution on Mediterranean policy
For two centuries France ' s Mediterranean policy consisted of the colonisation of Morocco , Tunisia and Algeria . Italy ' s was the occupation of Libya , and Britain ' s the shameless looting of Egypt .
Voices have been rightly raised in this very House against the dictatorship that holds sway in Tunisia and the one that continues to rule in Morocco , even if it is more moderate .
So why do we forget the material , military and diplomatic support France has given those regimes ?
Why do we forget France ' s responsibility for the war it waged in Algeria and for the tragic situation that still exists in that country today ?
Our solidarity is with the working classes of the Mediterranean region and that means we are opposed to the cooperation between owners and rulers promoted by this resolution .
Since the launch of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership on 27 and 28 November 1995 in Barcelona , the political context has changed .
The partnership has failed to meet the expectations raised by the countries participating in the conference .
We are anxious to preserve the Mediterranean Basin as an area of trade and dialogue , and we want the Barcelona Process relaunched without ill-considered intervention by the European Union .
In fact , the latter must take action to achieve a cultural , social and human partnership .
There are still many social challenges to be faced .
The implementation of an economic partnership is especially vital for agriculture .
The European Union must provide compensation for the crucial difficulties in this sector , notably as regards fruit and vegetables , and wine-growing .
The European Union must consider the island regions of the Mediterranean , particularly in terms of fisheries and agriculture .
We are hoping for synergy in the coordination of the interregional and transnational cooperation programmes , and for coordination between the Interreg and MEDA programmes .
Finally , would it not be appropriate to arrange a Euro-Mediterranean conference on agriculture and fisheries involving the representatives of local and regional communities as well as professional organisations ?
The European Union has a duty to be extremely vigilant about imports of agricultural products which threaten to imperil the whole of European production .
Hernndez Mollar report ( A5-0057 / 2000 )
Mr President , the action plans on asylum and migration , focusing on the problems encountered by the countries of origin and transit of asylum seekers and migrants , seem to us an excellent initiative in principle .
So we are astonished at the severity of the European Parliament ' s report and the general tone of yesterday ' s debate .
The fact is , to have any impact on migratory flows , it is necessary to act on their indirect causes .
So , in our opinion , it is an intelligent exercise , and the kind of thing which should be done more often at European level .
Why , then , are so many Members critical ?
The second criticism is that the action plans are too repressive because they contain measures to combat uncontrolled immigration and they advocate an extension of the readmission agreements with third countries .
But that is not a defect for us ; on the contrary , it is a good idea .
Indeed , it is an absolutely indispensable aspect of the plans .
It makes no sense to want everything and its opposite at the same time .
I abstained on the final vote on this report on the basis of my speech on Wednesday evening .
I am not in any way against the intentions or sentiments of the report but solely in respect of the action plan on Sri Lanka .
I believe that it is inadequate and that there is far too little attention paid to the need to seek a political solution in Sri Lanka .
The European Parliament I believe has a role to play in arguing that the European Union must bring pressure to bear on the Sri Lankan government to seek peace .
Europe can be the peace intermediary to bring such a peaceful solution to the island of Sri Lanka and peace for the Tamil and Sinhalese communities and others in Sri Lanka .
When it comes to the right of asylum , statements of principle are one thing , the reality of the situation is quite another .
In France , for example , only 2,000 of 7,000 asylum applications have been accepted .
The rejected asylum seekers become stateless people , victims of the open season on migrants , which is no less disgraceful for being regulated .
The only reason we are not voting against this text is that we refuse to be associated with the extreme right and their despicable ranting .
In the last half century , after several centuries ' pause , massive migrations have started again on the planet .
From south to north , from east to west , across Europe , these ceaseless waves of migrants destabilise the economic , budgetary , social , urban , religious and cultural balance .
Since the Treaty of Amsterdam , Europe has been in charge of the regulation of asylum , refugees and migrants . So what is Europe doing ?
Europe is drawing up plans and developing measures , 108 to be precise , with unspecified funding of course .
Faced with a planetary phenomenon of migration , we counter it with plans , budgets and information campaigns .
What it all adds up to is that , once again , the decision makers of the European Union are not dealing with either the causes or the scope of the problem .
In the end , if there is a migration towards the European continent , that is because this continent is emptying fast .
But between now and 2050 , two generations could be born here , in Europe , with the right demographic policy for the same budgetary cost as has been allocated to importing non-Europeans .
Klamt report ( A5-0052 / 2000 )
Mr President , we have naturally supported Mrs Klamt ' s report because of our desire and our duty to protect our children and everyone else in an extremely vulnerable position .
The report is also a good text in that respect .
In the wake of Mrs Grner and Mrs Roure , who tackled this phenomenon , I want to mention the upsurge in prostitution in Strasbourg and Brussels during this Parliament ' s part-sessions .
Of course , our institution as such is not responsible for this evil .
All the same , the coincidence is distressing .
It is not just children ' s human dignity that must be defended , even though their natural vulnerability justifies our affording them major protection .
That dignity must be defended and promoted for each and every one of us .
If dignity does not belong to everyone then it ceases to exist .
Exploiting that economic and social misery , as pimp or client , is a criminal act and that is how we must approach it .
The Klamt report is perhaps not sufficiently ambitious , but at least it has the merit of going in the right direction .
I would argue that the report still lacks something , namely greater focus on procedures for punishing the citizens of the European Union States , who , sadly , are the main perpetrators of this abomination .
We must not forget that there are many Europeans who feed this scourge of the new millennium
The text we are debating today certainly affects us more than most since it is about protecting children against sex tourism .
The European Commission has drawn up a report of the measures which have been taken in this field .
In view of the results , it is clear that the European Union and its Member States must increase their efforts to combat sex tourism and the exploitation of children .
We must go even further and establish measures such as a coherent child protection policy by creating a new general legal base in the context of the next revision of the Treaty , with adequate Community funding .
I also think it is essential to incorporate the rights of the child into the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights .
Exemplary penalties must be imposed on the people guilty of such monstrous behaviour .
That is intolerable !
We must not be blind to the fact that the Internet facilitates these ' practices ' .
This is why Parliament calls on the Commission to assess the link between child pornography on the Internet and the growth in sex tourism , and to propose practical measures against the phenomenon !
It is also essential to recognise that prostitution in general in the developing countries is very often due to poverty , affecting children , women and men .
We must also fight on those grounds because there will always be unscrupulous people around to exploit human poverty .
I want to end by reaffirming that children , this world ' s future , are one of the most vulnerable groups in the population , with specific needs that have to be protected .
We must never forget that every individual ' s childhood and the particular circumstances of their family and social circle in large measure determines their adult life .
Consequently , all the European Union and Member State institutions must be inspired in their action by the protection of children ' s rights as recognised in the United Nations Convention of 20 November 1989 .
I am voting with total conviction in favour of Ewa Klamt ' s report on combating child sex tourism .
That means the fight we are engaged in here cannot be dissociated from the problem of the trade in human beings and child pornography .
Faced with the exponential development of the latter on the Internet , Amendment No 2 is essential .
But a fundamental boundary has been overstepped when sexually exploited children are also represented as ' workers ' .
Amendment No 3 broadens the terms of this measure .
Let us try to look out for the future of these child victims , not just for the psychological consequences but also for the medical effects .
The sex industry destroys the prospects of children who pick up the AIDS virus and sexually transmissible diseases .
These sick children cannot even return to their families , which are just as crushed by poverty and social or ethnic discrimination .
Any paedophiles found guilty must be banned from activities involving contact with minors and we must crack down hard on them , as called for in Amendment No 9 .
Mrs Klamt has presented a good report today .
Obviously , this form of ' tourism ' is a crime .
But should we be astonished at this phenomenon when , at the same time , the development of prostitution , more generally , does not cause offence ?
This is an area where double standards must apply least of all .
Belgian society is currently being rocked by paedophile trials , and similar proceedings often go on in our own countries .
We cannot rejoice at so-called taboos collapsing , and then lament crimes which are merely the consequence of the disappearance of rules that are natural to all social life .
We must condemn these practices . Our respective states must take the necessary measures to prosecute and sentence those found guilty .
But back home , in our own countries and towns , we must combat the sexual exploitation of children , which is only the most despicable form of sexual exploitation of any human being .
The dignity of the individual , of the weakest in particular and of all in general , must be our guideline , in this area as in any other .
- I wholeheartedly support Ewa Klamt ' s report on the fight against child exploitation .
The report focuses specifically on combating child sex tourism but , as we all know , the issue is much broader than this .
Clearly , with new technology and globalisation , child pornography on the Internet , in particular , is an ever-growing international problem .
Technology is proceeding faster than individual governments can legislate .
Europe can act by strengthening child protection legislation and ensuring adequate child protection , particularly in some of the applicant countries , such as Romania and Hungary .
At present , it seems that animals have more rights than children in Europe .
I believe we must be vigilant and ensure strong , effective measures are put in place to protect the rights of children in e-Europe .
Progress is , of course , being made .
More and more European money is being given to combat child sex tourism and to increase public awareness about child protection , with a EUR 1 million separate budget line , and the STOP and DAPHNE programmes .
But whilst I welcome the positive noises coming from Brussels , it is not enough .
Mr President , I am not calling for a nanny-state approach , but simply that , in a civilised society , we recognise the right of children to their childhood .
That is too precious to become the plaything of wealthy , western tourists .
MacCormick report ( A5-0061 / 2000 )
Mr President , I voted for the MacCormick report on liability for defective products because ' it is meet and right so to do ' .
However , allow me to say that it does not go far enough for me or the Pensioners ' Party .
The European Union must do more to enforce liability for damages suffered by citizens , particularly the weaker members of society , caused by the defective products of public administration .
How often do European pensioners receive their pensions on time ?
How often do widows and elderly people receive the correct allowance ?
The States are guilty of such offences and should be held liable .
Turmes report ( A5-0078 / 2000 )
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , environmental protection is a prestigious field of politics , and rightly so .
However , it is precisely the subject of renewable energy sources that must be freed from the burden of ideology and wishful thinking , as well as from the material misuse of energy sources themselves .
The present report on the subject of renewable energy sources does precisely the opposite , and that is why I have rejected it .
What , for example , is to be made of the much-touted benefits of wind power , something I consider to be an economic and ecological mistake ?
No appreciable percentage of an ultramodern industrial state ' s energy needs can be met from wind power .
We are still talking about mere thousandths of the overall requirement .
Last year in Germany , two billion kilowatt hours were generated through wind power .
That is just 0.8 % of the total requirement of 2,500 billion kilowatts , and even that has cost the taxpayer DM 3 billion in grants .
Clearly , then , the future does not lie down this particular road , and we should therefore turn back from this economic and ecological blind alley and find ourselves a new direction .
Mr President , I read the Turmes report on electricity very carefully and I voted for it .
How could anybody fail to support any initiative which stresses the importance of electricity , of which we are all aware ?
However , I have taken the floor to explain my reasons for voting in this way because I wish to say that , once again , there is something missing .
The Turmes report lacks a recommendation to provide the most vulnerable citizens of our Union , who have the lowest economic means , not with electricity at a reduced price , but with free electricity .
Nowadays , it is impossible to live without electricity .
Electricity is like the water we drink and the air we breathe .
Do we pay for the air we breathe ?
Then we should not have to pay for electricity either if we do not have the means to do so .
- ( SV ) Regarding paragraphs 11-16 concerning supports to renewable energy sources , we would provide the following clarification .
In addition , support ought to be given to research and development projects for the promotion of renewable energy sources .
The final text of Mr Turmes ' report is bound to disturb anyone committed to a rational energy policy based on environmental conservation as the vital imperative .
We are delighted at this possible interpretation , but we doubt whether that was your intention .
You ingenuously demand the uniform application of Community guidelines on state aid , with all Member States and all energy subject to the same provisions .
This type of challenge is not appropriate in an area which has not yet officially ceased regarding the Member States as independent nations , freely implementing policies of their own choice .
You have the merit of having shown your hand , although in a rather peremptory way , by affirming that the Member States recognise that it is necessary to promote renewable sources of energy as a priority .
That simple observation is all it takes to condemn a text where good intentions are not enough to mask federalist logic and a dangerous lack of realism .
Resolution on the cloning of human beings
However , we were very divided when it came to the vote .
I , for example , voted for the resolution because , for me , it sent out important signals concerning human dignity .
Many in the group - quite rightly , too , I think - abstained from voting because most of the amendments of the Group of the European People ' s Party were adopted .
I think it was the wish of the Group of the European People ' s Party to attempt to transform this motion for a resolution into an advert for the patenting directive .
They did not succeed , but they have nonetheless weakened the resolution .
That is unfortunately not the case .
Contrary to what Parliament believes , this patent is no isolated case .
For years , the European Parliament has not patented human genes where they originate , in the body . However , the patenting of human genes and parts of the human genetic make-up still goes on .
This is an affront to human dignity and also signifies a commercialisation of the human body .
I was delighted to see that both the European and the German federations of medical practitioners are so clear-sighted about the fact and have also warned that research might be impeded by the patenting of genes .
It is also nonsense and self-deluding to maintain that the directive on patenting would prohibit this .
This neither helps clarify patent law in the European Union nor makes for better and urgently needed protection against the rampant commercialisation of the building blocks of life . On the contrary .
In its current form , the adopted text further reduces the minimum level of protection provided under the 1998 directive on bio-patents .
In this way , there is a growing danger that the genetic inheritance of mankind will be taken from the community as a whole and made into a profitable commodity for the few .
In order to counter this danger , my group and I have voted in such a way as to reject any elements which have nothing to do with patent protection for biotechnological inventions .
In the end , we have voted as a unit against the resolution .
That does not prevent me and my group from campaigning , in the future too , for a situation in which ethical limits upon medical research and therapy are all complied with .
It is human dignity which provides the decisive standard .
- We have had a lengthy debate in this house on the patenting of biotechnology .
I myself , together with other Green deputies , warned of the consequences at the time .
Specifically , I warned that to make patents on human genes or part of human genes would jeopardise the freedom of research and impede the progress of medicine .
Genetic information can only be discovered , it cannot be invented .
Commercialisation of the knowledge of the human genome , which has been accumulated by research in many parts of the world , would jeopardise the medical application of this important scientific knowledge about the human body and its functions .
The human genome and its sequences should not be patentable .
The granting of this patent by the European Patent Office is deeply shocking and must be revoked .
Our vote against human cloning is primarily intended to express our lack of confidence in the present economic and social organisation , certainly not our rejection of science and its possibilities .
- My vote in this matter is in support of the need to ensure that the European Patent Office improves its procedures to prevent any patent being used in human cloning .
The University of Edinburgh ' s application for this patent has nothing to do with cloning ( cloning was considered impossible when the patent was filed ! )
It is established and legitimate practice in both academic and biopharmaceutical research to genetically manipulate human cells in tissue culture .
This has been done for many years and is a major method of learning how genes and cells function .
It bears no relation to genetic manipulation of people or embryos .
It is misleading to suggest that the object of this patent is to genetically manipulate humans .
The University of Edinburgh have indicated their willingness to cooperate with any suitable modification of the patent .
This is what the Edinburgh research is about .
- ( SV ) On 8 December 1999 , the European Patent Office approved ' by mistake ' Patent No EP 69 53 51 concerning the genetic manipulation of human cells and embryos .
At the same time , I presume that the European Patent Office as an authority , and its representatives personally , are drawing the necessary conclusions from what has happened .
- I would like to first congratulate those who have drafted and voted on Directive 98 / 44 / EC which is a step forward in the protection of the human being .
Unfortunately , companies have already been developing and patenting cloning techniques .
While they state that they support the ban on ' reproductive cloning ' , they have already patented and commercialised human closed cells in order to treat age-related and degenerative diseases .
A patent for these techniques has been granted in the UK since August of 1995 .
Indeed , this experimentation , under the guise of ' therapeutic cloning ' is already patented , and the object of ongoing research .
In light of this reality , I would ask the Commission to issue a particular reference to the patenting of the human embryo at the stage of stem cells .
Scientific research is now doing more than explore and analyse the world , it is changing it .
The Patent office has acknowledged a ' linguistic ' mistake which does not seem to be entirely corroborated by Article 11 of the description of the intervention .
GM corn , manipulation of the living organism , transplanting animal organs into human beings - we are entering unknown territory and there are great fears we must confront .
Where will it end ?
Why should we put our trust in science alone in this new context ?
As elected representatives and citizens , we are outpaced by issues where the scientific component is too strong .
Science itself seems outpaced by the onward rush of sorcerer ' s apprentices with no longer any taboos , moral boundaries or ethics .
Their research laboratories , which long ago became ivory towers , are increasingly surrounded by the business offices which are proliferating in this new biological El Dorado between knowledge and profit .
There is plenty of money at stake .
Will the political authorities have the power to regulate this new market and ensure that the ethical dimension is respected in genetics ?
Or will we soon find ourselves in the kind of world depicted in that excellent film ' Gattaca ' ?
It is not enough for the Patent Office to acknowledge a mistake and make its excuses .
There are so many uncertainties at the legal and moral level , about the future acceptability of patents applied for , which are currently in the thousands .
The debate about the moral boundaries of biotechnology and how to control them has begun .
That concludes the vote .
Adjournment of the session
I declare adjourned the session of the European Parliament .
( The sitting was closed at 12.40 p.m. )
Resumption of the session
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 30 March 2000 .
Madam President , for the past six months to a year , the Committee on Development and Cooperation has been calling on the Commission to do something about the drought in Ethiopia .
Nothing has been done although there was an instant reaction from the Commission when the fact that 12 million people are under threat of famine in Ethiopia came to public attention .
Commissioner Nielson must come to this House and explain his use of PR men and spin doctors in this disgraceful display of neglect .
Despite statements to the contrary , they can most certainly get two billion dollars ' worth of weapons into the conflict in Ethiopia and Eritrea .
The whole issue is a reflection on the inability of this House to act .
Mr Andrews , there is of course no need to start a debate on the subject .
Madam President , as many of us know , last Friday saw the inauguration in Vienna of the Monitoring Centre for Racism , Xenophobia and Antisemitism .
You stated this very clearly and powerfully and thus sent a message of confidence to the people of Austria and to all the other peoples of Europe .
They all asked me - and I am very willing to act as their messenger - to thank you for your speech , which made us proud to be Members of this House .
Thank you , Mr Imbeni , for your extremely kind words .
I believe it was very important for this House .
Thank you , Mr Imbeni , for your comments .
Madam President , if I have been informed correctly , the Council has postponed its statement on Iraq and it will not now be made this week .
Would it be possible for you to ask the Council to make a statement on Ethiopia in place of the statement on Iraq ?
This point would then be filled , depending , of course , on whether the Council is able to oblige .
Mr Hnsch , we shall deal with this point when we come to the draft agenda in a few moments , and we shall make a decision at that time as to how to handle the situation .
Madam President , I should like to draw your attention to an internal matter .
In other parliaments ushers are treated with the respect that they deserve .
I would hope that happened in the European Parliament .
If the situation does not improve , do you know if there are any disciplinary procedures we could take against those Members who treat the staff in such a disrespectful manner ?
Disciplinary procedures ? I do not think so , but I do promise to consider very carefully the comments you have made regarding both the no-smoking areas and attitudes towards the ushers .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , reading the international press is an interesting activity should one wish to know how certain MEPs keep themselves occupied here .
Most of the time , the press reports are read with a certain element of interest , fascination or surprise , bearing in mind that the European Parliament is a House which comprises many chambers .
One can form one ' s own opinion and keep quiet .
However , there was one incident last week about which we cannot keep quiet any longer .
You will have to forgive me if I tell you what Mr Berlusconi said , but I think it is difficult to judge if you do not know the content .
Mr Berlusconi made the following joke : do you know why an AIDS sufferer needs to take a bath filled with sand ?
The answer is in order to get used to lying in the soil .
These words were spoken by a Member of this House .
I refuse to believe that anyone here would keep calm if this joke was aimed at Jews or blacks .
I think that a reaction from yourself , Madam President , would be wholly appropriate .
I would , at the same time , ask the chairman and leader of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats for his opinion on this matter .
I can only say that these remarks have shocked me deeply .
In solidarity with all the millions of people who suffer from this terrible disease , I can only express my shame on behalf of the honourable Member , Silvio Berlusconi .
( Applause from the left )
Madam President , we have read in the newspapers that five million euros ' worth of Parliament property has been purloined and that Parliament ' s finances have been poorly managed .
In addition , a report by the Court of Auditors of the European Communities is due shortly on the use of resources by Parliament ' s political groups , and it is not a flattering picture .
These are big issues , and Parliament must address them seriously .
I have already , on many occasions , bemoaned the fact here in plenary that Parliament ' s television system fails to produce a picture for Finnish television .
Finland is the only country whose television picture cannot be picked up in Parliament .
I would have hoped that such a small matter as this would be sorted out .
The Dutch often complained about the lack of Dutch television during parliamentary part sessions .
They now get two channels , and I hope that we Finns will now get at least one .
And then , might we not still hope for hot water in the pipes , which has not been available during this new Parliament ' s term of office ?
I have already complained about this on various occasions in parliamentary sittings .
What is the problem with you bureaucrats , that you cannot sort these things out in this House ?
Meanwhile you allow five million euros to be stolen !
Thank you , Mr Seppnen .
It is not just a little detail .
You are probably aware of the considerable effort that went into arranging for our Dutch Members to have a television channel in their own language , and the problem with regard to Finland has not yet been resolved .
Mrs Banotti , who is dealing with the matter , will be able to give you the latest details .
I am really sorry that he has not been handed that card .
I will attend to it this week .
In the College of Quaestors we have also discussed - because we too are concerned - robberies that are taking place within Parliament .
I can assure you that the Quaestors are working on it .
Thank you , Mrs Banotti .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , considerable changes have been made to the proposed agenda .
Reports have been shifted around and time slots have even been changed .
Tomorrow we will start at 8.30 a.m. for the first time .
We are now faced with a dilemma .
As elected members of our national parliaments , we represent our electorate and this must be reflected in all votes .
I therefore wonder how we are to fulfil our obligations in the best way ?
This is not an anti-Strasbourg campaign but a plea for more Members to be present during the votes and also for an increase in Parliament ' s prestige .
You received an e-mail last week about our intention to apply for the quorum on Friday .
The Conference of Presidents has also received a letter on this matter .
However , the agenda is not heavier as a result . If anything , as I have already stated , this coming Friday ' s agenda is lighter .
Our plans , therefore , remain unchanged , and this means that if , on Friday , the necessary 209 Members are not present , then the vote will not take place .
Ladies and gentlemen , I would ask you , please , not to use points of order to start a debate on this matter which would keep us here all night .
In return , I promise that I shall raise the matter at the Conference of Presidents .
The Group leaders have heard your points .
There clearly is a problem and it is one that we shall examine at the Conference of Presidents when the next agenda is determined and , of course , more generally after that .
Madam President , I would like to very briefly respond to Mr Seppnen very briefly ; not regarding the matter of Finnish television , but the first point which he raised .
I am aware , of course , that about 10 days ago a certain article from the European Voice was recycled again and again across Europe .
Thank you , Mr Ribeiro , we shall look into your statement very carefully .
Madam President , I would like to bring to your attention an incident last week where two football fans were tragically murdered on their way to watch their team play in the UEFA Cup .
Football is a sport which transcends the world .
Almost every country plays football .
It is known as a beautiful game .
In about three months Belgium and Holland will play host to Euro 2000 .
There is every likelihood that incidents such as those that happened last week will be repeated again in Belgium and Holland .
Can I ask you , through your good offices , to contact all the Member States who are involved , to try and keep such problems to a minimum ?
Thank you , Mr Miller .
We shall do so .
We have often voted on recommendations on sports-related violence and what you tell us is rather worrying .
Madam President , Mr Hnsch made an important observation a moment ago and , since his point forms part of the agenda as a whole , I would like to add my thoughts as well .
This is a very sensible suggestion in my view .
We would also like to see Iraq treated as an Urgency because , eventually , Parliament will need to pass its verdict .
Just because the Council is not ready , that does not mean that we in Parliament cannot bring the matter up for discussion .
On a final note : we would appreciate it very much , partly in the light of the alarming television pictures we have seen lately , if Zimbabwe too were to be included under the human rights heading .
We have a comprehensive package which will probably enable us to cover all the points which are important to this Parliament .
Mr van Velzen , you will have the opportunity to make your comments in just a moment , as we are about to move on to the agenda .
Agenda
The next item is the examination of the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure .
Sittings in Strasbourg from 10 to 14 April 2000 :
Relating to Tuesday :
The Council has informed us that it did not wish to make a statement on Iraq at the present time .
We of course regret this , but the fact remains .
We have no means to force the Council to make a statement .
Their proposal was to enter these items on the agenda instead of the statement on Iraq .
Let me turn now to Mr Hnsch .
Is this what you propose ?
Madam President , we would prefer Turkey to be given priority , although if we move it from Wednesday to Tuesday , then there is still room to discuss Ethiopia on Wednesday , if the Council agrees .
So , Tuesday Turkey , Wednesday Ethiopia .
Madam President , I do not think that proposal is such a good one because , if I am properly informed , the Council will not be attending on Wednesday .
I would prefer it if we could hold the debate on Ethiopia when the Council is present .
Mr van Velzen , the Council is indeed in attendance on Wednesday , I am assured .
So , relating to Tuesday , I propose that we bring forward the Council and Commission statements on the Turkish situation and enter them on the agenda instead of the statement on Iraq .
Mr Hnsch has just spoken in support of this request .
If there is no one who wishes to speak against it , I shall put the matter to the vote .
( Parliament gave its assent )
Relating to Wednesday :
I now propose to hold the debate on the famine in Ethiopia in the place of the statements on Turkey which we have just brought forward to Tuesday .
Is there anyone who wishes to speak against this proposal ?
Madam President , I would suggest that this will give us the opportunity to adopt a short resolution on Ethiopia .
Yes , of course .
( Parliament gave its assent )
Relating to Thursday :
Regarding the topical and urgent subjects of major importance , I have a number of proposed amendments .
First of all , a request from the Liberal Group to replace the first item , ' Non-proliferation treaty ' , with a new item entitled ' Iraq ' .
Madam President , it would be a great help to many of us if we could vote on item IV first , for I believe there is a large majority in favour of our proposal under item IV .
We shall then be able to withdraw our proposal under item I.
Unless you want us to proceed directly to the vote on replacing item IV ?
Madam President , I should be glad if we could vote on item IV before I decide about that .
Madam President , if I have understood correctly , the Liberal Group has moved that the point concerning the non-proliferation treaty be replaced by Iraq .
For goodness sake , let ' s vote on it !
Yes , I think that is clearer .
I would rather keep to the order in which the proposals were received .
I shall now put to the vote the request from the liberal group to replace the item on the ' Non-proliferation treaty ' with a new item entitled ' Iraq ' .
( Parliament gave its assent )
Who wishes to speak in favour of this proposal ?
It is okay to have five points .
If we take Zimbabwe as an additional point , we could vote for it .
The originators of the proposal seem to be happy to agree to that .
Thank you for that .
There is therefore no need to vote on this proposal since it has been withdrawn .
I then received five proposals to add a fifth sub-item to the ' Human Rights ' section .
It is up to the House to decide .
I think we are all in agreement .
I shall , however , at least notify you of the other proposals , if only out of consideration for the Members and the groups which tabled them .
So , I have the proposal regarding Zimbabwe .
Next , I have a request from the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance for a sub-item on ' Human rights violations in Australia : arbitrary judgements against aborigines ' .
The proposal for an item on the Ethiopian famine has been withdrawn .
Then there were the proposals for the item on Zimbabwe which I have already brought forward as the first item , and the proposal from the liberal group to add a sub-item on ' Pinochet ' .
Who is in favour of entering Zimbabwe as the fifth sub-item in the Human Rights section ?
( Parliament gave its assent ) Relating to Friday :
Regarding the oral questions on forestry , the Group of the Party of European Socialists has requested that the debate should conclude with the submission of motions for resolutions which may be tabled but not voted on .
Is there anyone who wishes to speak in favour of or against this proposal ?
Madam President , I would like to speak in favour of adopting a resolution in connection with the oral question to the Commission on the consequences of last December ' s storms .
The citizens would not understand it if we simply held a debate without then saying what proposed solutions and options the European Union can offer .
I therefore ask that a resolution be taken in connection with the oral question .
Do you mean after the oral question on the storms ?
I do not think that would be a problem .
( Parliament gave its assent )
Sittings in Brussels on 3 and 4 May : no amendments .
( The order of business was adopted thus amended )
Child pornography on the Internet
At that time we took a number of initiatives which we believed would help children , the most vulnerable section of our society .
Mostly they were concerned with issues such as sex tourism and general abuse in countries all over the world .
There are very few regulations which are concerned with what the Internet is used for .
That is the reason for my report - to protect children , to try and help children to avoid being abused in this particular manner .
My report , for the first time , puts forward a definition .
We have been short of a definition until now .
Although there was an initial Austrian initiative , which this report supports , it did not contain a definition .
In our report we have entered a definition which we hope will be acceptable internationally .
We can only deal with this matter if we deal with it in an international fashion .
If we are lucky , we will see a world approach to outlaw these very bad practices .
We have required within our report that European nation states should have action plans for dealing with the abuses which take place .
We are concerned with the production , sale , distribution and deliberate possession of pornographic images showing children .
We want to stamp out this appalling abuse .
In our report we wish to make sure that police authorities throughout Europe take action to deal with these matters .
We have tried to reach a compromise in our deliberations .
I believe that we have managed to do so .
We have had nothing but positive contributions .
In my own committee this report was adopted with 27 votes in favour and one abstention .
That I regard as very helpful and a good sign for the future .
Madam President , child pornography is a loathsome form of crime .
Measures at transnational level are required , especially due to the denationalised nature of the Internet .
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur , Mr Kirkhope , for his most excellent report .
In this regard , it is perhaps particularly pleasing that it is from Great Britain that Mr Kirkhope comes .
It is good that he has defined child pornography , and I believe we have arrived at a satisfactory compromise .
It is particularly good that Mr Kirkhope has also stated that everything that has the appearance of being child pornography shall also be included under this definition .
Contact points or special units shall be set up in the Member States according to the draft . This will hopefully lead to better investigations .
There is a need for more expertise in this area if it is to be possible to carry out professional investigations .
Europol will be involved , as will the candidate countries .
It is a good thing that crime in third countries will be punished in accordance with national legislation .
Our line of argument allows for flexibility in defining the age-limit that strikes the hardest blow to child pornography .
It is a question of creating the most effective protection for children so that they are able to hold on to the childhood that they are entitled to .
All children should have the right to a childhood ! That ought to be a basic human right .
This obligation must have legal implications .
The importance of the Internet is obvious to us all .
It has come to be indispensable as a modern communication tool .
We need it for exchanging information , for learning and for all sorts of operations .
However , increased use of the Internet also means increased access to violence and pornography , not least child pornography .
Children themselves have access to violence on the Internet , which must be objectionable to us all .
Parents are powerless in the face of this phenomenon because they cannot keep up with this technological progress .
We are extremely concerned , especially in the new MEDIA 2000 programme which is being drawn up , as to how we should deal with this problem in the future .
Consequently , an urgent need has arisen to combat child pornography on the Internet effectively .
This requires efficient software to determine the country of origin , to trace the images and to catch the perpetrators and those producing the images .
This in turn requires extremely advanced technology .
We need specialists who can develop access codes , which will also necessitate certain restrictions being placed on media freedom .
We need to network all the relevant organisations , the welfare organisations and NGOs , to facilitate rapid action and effective procedures .
However , we must not forget one thing : the main reason why children are forced into this is poverty .
We must combat poverty and intolerance and take this as our starting point .
This is the key to prevention .
It means that we must understand the children , but also that we must protect the victims , offer them assistance in reintegrating and help them to rediscover a normal life .
We must not , therefore , simply act in a preventative fashion ; we must offer long-term help to those children affected .
The attention that has been paid to this issue has increased considerably in all Member States .
Nevertheless , at European Union level , even though children represent around one fifth of the Union ' s population , specific attention is very rarely paid to their needs in economic policies and in other areas .
These children are in particular need of society ' s protection .
The evolution of the Internet , its incredibly rapid development and its importance today raise the question of its use for these reprehensible purposes .
Today we have been discussing what we need to prevent and combat , and that is the circulation and distribution of child pornography , which has been increasing at an alarming rate .
Madam President , in my opinion perversion is undoubtedly on the increase if , in addition to a child being sexually exploited , the event is recorded , in whatever fashion , and then reused for financial gain .
These events are occurring every day , every hour and perhaps every minute .
The perpetrators are using the most up-to-date technology to distribute their material and in the Internet they have found a medium which is more suited than any other to acting anonymously .
Paedophiles are limited only by their own technical capability or the equipment which they can afford .
The Internet itself cannot commit crimes .
What is criminal is the behaviour of some 3 to 5 % of Internet users who misuse the Net for illegal purposes .
95 to 97 % of the Internet is legal .
The Internet is therefore a reflection of society as a whole .
Just as in the real world , crime is very much a part of the virtual world .
All the same , the Internet is not beyond the law .
The problem of crime on the Internet cannot be resolved by any state in isolation .
For this we need uniform worldwide crimes and definitions so that law enforcement authorities can work together in global terms and not in opposition .
In the area of child pornography in particular , where the rights of children are continually being trampled underfoot , there is an urgent need for global regulation .
The EU has already taken several measures towards this , which I will not go into any further here .
I would like to congratulate Mr Kirkhope on his report .
It is a high-quality text .
All the proposed measures are suitable and necessary to effectively combat child pornography .
We need a social climate in which the victims of vile crimes are not left to fend for themselves whilst the perpetrators are shielded through failure to act and fear of embarrassing revelations .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to thank Mr Kirkhope for his excellent report .
Despite earlier initiatives by the Commission and Parliament , the misuse of the Internet and its harmful and illegal content have only increased , and it is time and again apparent how difficult it is to combat child pornography .
What exactly needs to be done in order to combat child pornography effectively , especially on the Internet ?
First of all , we need to set up an easily accessible and recognisable contact point .
In fact , the Netherlands was the first country to set up such a contact point back in 1996 , on the initiative of the Internet providers .
Secondly , for the purposes of enforcement , police forces and the judiciary need more expertise regarding the Internet and ancillary digital technology . This is simply lacking .
Officials need to be trained well , otherwise they will be unable to combat child pornography effectively .
Lastly , the penalties must be harmonised in Europe and must be increased .
If not , the Internet will remain a threat and it will never be the challenge which it could be .
Mr President , Commissioner Vitorino , ladies and gentlemen , firstly , I would like to congratulate Mr Kirkhope .
In fact , his name fills us with hope .
Mr Kirkhope ' s document has lifted the lid on a great deal - a great deal of child suffering and human suffering .
We are delighted that there is now a definition at long last .
Secondly , that this phenomenon must be increasingly brought into the open and binding measures must be drafted .
This includes setting up contact points , such as those in Belgium and the Netherlands , and also in the other EU Member States and candidate countries .
After all , there is quite obviously a correlation between child pornography on the Internet and trafficking in children .
This correlation is evident in the countries of origin , the transit countries and the host countries in the European Union .
This correlation is also evident in the case of possibly kidnapped and missing children .
Recently , mothers recognised their own children on a porn website which could be viewed at police stations in France .
We also know that details of people ' s identity are used or misused by people with connections in the world of child porn websites .
In order to conceal their own identity , they use the bank details of others .
In order to stamp out child pornography , we need a multi-disciplinary approach .
The police and criminal investigation services must be able to do their jobs well .
This means that the politicians need to ensure that the police can do its job effectively .
The police within the European Union work differently from the police in some candidate countries , as other MEPs have already pointed out .
Politicians too should believe that child pornography exists on the Internet .
The NGOs are doing a great job .
To finish off , I would like to point out that some pimps use the Internet to distribute photographs of young people engaged in prostitution .
Mr President , Mr Kirkhope ' s report has the virtue of drawing the Council ' s attention to a dreadful criminal activity .
Communication technologies transform data .
The Internet thus has formative and demultiplying effects on the trade and traffic in child pornography .
This trafficking is on a scale hitherto unknown in terms of its extent and the geographical areas covered .
It is an urgent state of affairs , and specific action must be proposed in order to deal with the networks that exist .
In all the States of the Union , individual paedophile acts are suppressed , but ignorance and inefficiency still reign in the suppression of networks .
What we have to deal with here are ephemeral , evolving sites , which adapt constantly and which are complicated to monitor .
This state of affairs makes it essential to draw up a survey of paedophile networks within the countries of the European Union .
The existence of these networks confirms the need for a common judicial area .
Once again , the rapporteur urges the Union to approach the Member States , and ask them to make an effort to harmonise their national legislation in this area .
I share his opinion but , given the cross-border nature of the problem , the response must be at Union level .
There is no problem identifying the parties involved in trafficking child pornography , who are often repeat offenders .
What is needed is prevention , in order to counter their activities and to dismantle their networks .
The European Union must provide itself with a suitable structure , a European instrument to enforce information exchange and action .
This instrument must be such as to make it possible to address States directly in order to urge them to pass on information , but also to issue orders so that the networks can be dismantled .
The Union should be in a position to apply penalties to any State which does not fulfil its criminal law obligations in the matter of combating paedophilia .
The Dutch police have drawn up a file of several hundred children from a CD-ROM containing 10 000 images or sequences of child pornography available on the Internet .
Interpol has acknowledged having a file of 800 photos .
Why are these valuable documents not used ?
Who are these children and what is being done to locate them ?
If there are records of offenders , it must be possible to keep records of victims .
It is our duty , ethically , as human beings , to do everything we can to find them .
For all these reasons I think the European Union must make combating this form of crime a priority .
Mr Kirkhope ' s report is filled with good intentions , but further proposals must be made in order to deal with the present situation .
I think the Commission and the Council should take action which is up to the task of dealing with the high stakes of this crime that affects thousands of innocents .
The action proposed by the Austrian Government is heading in the right direction , which is that of strengthening the prosecution of anyone deliberately producing , selling , disseminating or owning materials relating to the sexual exploitation of children .
What , however , are we to think of the limited personnel and financial resources allocated at the present time to the police departments responsible for monitoring Internet networks , which are , by definition , worldwide ones ?
To govern , however , means to make plans .
And we have to investigate the deep-seated reasons for this scourge in order to attempt to find an effective cure for the problem .
Our society , and often this House , claims that the future of humanity is freedom without responsibility and rights without duties .
This is an irresponsible attitude .
The first phenomenon is the boom in pornography in general , and the second is , obviously , the exploitation of children for sexual purposes .
I mention the boom in pornography in general because I do not think it is possible to isolate child pornography completely from the rest .
We should not , therefore , be astonished that our society is in the position that it is in , and that child sex abuse is commonplace .
Is this , though , not also the inevitable continuation of a number of measures which have already been taken ?
For example , in the area of trivialising homosexuality .
I am well aware that not all child pornography necessarily ...
( Mixed reactions ) ... you see , you are proving the truth of what I am trying to say .
Some of our fellow Members who are here condemning child pornography are also demanding , for example , that homosexual couples ( indeed why should we limit it to couples ? ) should be able to adopt children .
This is the total reversal of the idea of adoption , whereby adoption is no longer in the interests of the child adopted but only in the interests of the adopting adult .
This is necessarily the first step on the road which leads ultimately to the deviancies of child pornography .
I know , I am well aware of Mr Schulz ' s customary protests .
They are not going to stop me asking whether this horrendous decline in moral standards is not also a continuation of the morality of the termination of unborn children ?
Why , when one is prepared to accept state-controlled hospitals organising terminations of unborn children , should one find it absolutely scandalous in moral terms to abuse children , once born , for the sexual pleasure of adults ?
That , ladies and gentlemen , is what I wanted to say .
Such practices have met with leniency , as we all know , within the Member States up to and including at the highest levels of their political classes .
We therefore do not want a situation where you cannot see the wood for the trees .
Whether by personal networks , by telephone , by Minitel , no one considers bringing back censorship or opening mail on the grounds that child pornography may also be sent by post .
The Internet , Minitel , the post are nothing more than the medium .
It is the originators we must combat .
It is not the Internet itself which is to blame , but the child pornographers , and they must be punished severely .
Everyone knows perfectly well that that is not the case today .
( Applause and mixed reactions )
Mr President , the pioneers of the Internet saw the electronic highway as the ultimate means of communication and the road towards a new social order .
It was important for it to be subjected to as few rules as possible .
It has since become apparent that the Internet is merely a reflection of our society .
In addition to a wealth of information and expertise , it also reflects the criminal underbelly of society , including child pornography .
The nature of the Internet is such that it has become easier to disseminate child pornography anonymously , rapidly and across national borders .
This is a good reason to take action against this as a Union .
Our children should be protected against this disrespectful exploitation , which reduces them to mere toys and leaves them damaged for the rest of their lives .
I therefore welcome the Council ' s current proposal and Mr Kirkhope ' s report with open arms .
I do wonder , however , whether too much is not being asked of the Council through Parliament ' s adding new elements to the description of the criminal offence of " child pornography " .
Harmonising criminal law at European level is quite different from creating European criminal law .
Another difficult point is the age limit up to which pornography is considered child pornography .
I myself am in favour of an age limit of 18 , rather than 16 , years .
But the current compromise , in which both ages are mentioned without opting for one or the other , is confusing .
I do not think that we can seriously expect the Council to adopt this text , but that does not detract from my appreciation of the work which the rapporteur and the Commission have put in .
Mr President , as someone who is deeply dismayed by the on-going out-of-hand condemnation of Austria by fourteen Member States , I am particularly pleased that the initiative for the report in question has come from Austria .
This matter has preoccupied us for a long time , too long in my opinion .
Its importance is demonstrated by the constantly increasing incidence of such delinquency .
Nevertheless , irrespective of the importance of efficient law enforcement in this area , we must not depart from the principle of criminal-law liability and postulate strict liability .
The report is therefore on the right track .
Children are taking on various ages in this Union .
Anyone who does not take action against children and minors being abused and lead astray is jeopardising the future .
Pornographic material can be distributed via the Internet in unlimited amounts and by the most direct route .
There is the danger that children themselves may surf the Internet and come across pornographic images of their peers , thereby sustaining psychological damage .
Combating child pornography and the misuse of the Internet is , therefore , both a worldwide and a specifically European responsibility and we call upon all Member States to take action in light of this report .
We welcome the debate on the age limit .
Actions must follow .
Mr Gollnisch is a fascist delegate in this House who takes advantage of every opportunity , not least in this Chamber , to slander others .
It is the left-wingers or the gays who are responsible for child pornography .
He beautifully tars everyone with the same brush .
The left-wing French Government is responsible for the abolition of the criminal register of sex offenders and is therefore responsible , in the logic of this arch-fascist , for child pornography .
This is the type of poison which he spouts here .
At any rate , these fine people do not participate in parliamentary work and it is time that this was made known because they are only ever speaking for the benefit of the visitors .
Then it all sounds so wonderful .
The reality is that these fine people do not partake in 99 % of the work .
They spout their poison and then push off .
I share the opinion of Mr Hager that we should also place an obligation on providers .
I think this is a worthy point which Mr Kirkhope should take into consideration in his report .
I also expressly support the view that we should not move away from criminal-law liability .
It cannot be right to release from criminal-law liability one of the primary areas where human dignity is violated , particularly taking into account the special need to protect minors .
I believe this must be made clear , even if it has sometimes been disputed by the groups on the left .
On this point , Mr Hager is correct .
We cannot resolve it simply through Interpol and more stringent criminal law .
The Internet , as evidenced by child pornography , presents totally new challenges to our subjective , individual sense of responsibility .
We should discuss this in at least as much detail as the tightening of criminal law .
Mr President , child sex abuse is a criminal offence , whether it is committed by homosexuals or heterosexuals .
The distribution of child pornography on the net is also a criminal offence , and so is making child pornography .
Victims of paedophile activity are often facing lifelong trauma with some of them turning into child abusers themselves .
The distribution of child pornography is facilitated by the Internet .
Not only is the scale of distribution magnified , but there is a risk of the offence being trivialised .
These are all points underlined by Mrs Plooij .
I feel sorry for them , not only because of what they are witnesses to , but also because of the volume of material in respect of which they must feel powerless .
We pretend that we are all agreed on this , but this is not so in practice .
In actual fact , there is a great deal of resistance .
Tourist areas , also within our own European Union , do not want to admit that poverty forces poor children into prostitution .
The Internet has the aura of progress .
And when it comes to harmonising our legislation at European level , reference is made to all kinds of grand legal principles .
I think that whoever wills the end must also will the means .
Mr President , It is good that we are having this debate on child pornography on the Internet .
Apart from a few rather coarse , ignorant contributions from my opponent , what has been said has been very sensible .
I would like to point out that , in actual fact , many paedophiles assault children that are close to them .
It is not divorce , alcoholism or anything else that encourages this behaviour .
It is fairly well known that being sexually aroused by children is not exactly normal behaviour , and for that we should be grateful .
The Internet makes exchanging pictures easier , and it is this we should be discussing .
I agree totally with Mrs Maes that we have excellent police authorities working with these issues .
However , in relation to how the problem has increased , there are not enough of them to be able to examine the whole situation .
It is , therefore , a shame that we are immediately about to call in Europol .
We have had discussions with representatives from Europol with respect to trafficking in women and children , and they say that they have two reports .
However , these reports are not official , so only Europol is aware of Europol 's own activities .
This is a problem .
For this is not only an issue within the EU .
There is also much to do when it comes to Thailand , the Philippines and other places around the world , something the police authorities are working on .
It is not exclusively in Western Europe that this issue is being dealt with .
The problem with the Internet is that the pictures are so clear .
Older children are at risk of being continuously pursued on the net and of being recognised for ever and a day .
We must consider how we in the Member States are to take care of the children that have been victims of this crime and whose photographs are on the net .
In Sweden we have also had experience of people finding their way into the school system or child care because they are paedophiles .
It is a shame that we have not discussed the enormous cutbacks and extensive privatisation in these areas .
I truly welcome this debate . However , I would like us to remember that paedophilia is not a common , widespread activity , a fact for which , as I have already said , we must be grateful .
Mr President , likewise dismayed by the persistent out-of-hand condemnation of Austria by the 14 Member States , I consider it particularly important and I am pleased that we are showing unity in this matter .
Finally , I would like to express my satisfaction that the Member States of the EU are so resolutely and actively supporting this Austrian proposal and not just taking refuge in soundbites and clichs .
Mr President , Commissioner , as long as there is a demand for child pornography , it will be produced .
However , as long as this demand exists , there will also be abused children scarred for life .
I therefore welcome this initiative , which was finally put forward so comprehensively by the Austrian Presidency .
Above all , I welcome the proposals for expanding the initiative which the rapporteur , Mr Kirkhope , has made .
He has made a major contribution to the instrument , which the Member States can now take up , being more efficient than ever before .
I would like to pick up on five points which seem to me to be particularly important in the fight against child pornography .
My second point is the age limit .
It cannot be set high enough .
I therefore appeal that the target which the Committee has set itself , i.e. of establishing the age of 18 as standard at European level , be implemented as soon as possible .
16 is just the first step .
The target must remain 18 .
My third point is that we need experts in the fight against child pornography on the Internet .
And it is even more important that these experts join forces , that they are coordinated , and here again Europol presents itself as the appropriate institution .
My fifth point is that we should proceed according to the personality principle in order to punish criminal acts as efficiently as possible .
In conclusion , I would like to appeal first of all to the individual responsibility of all those who use child pornography for their own gain .
They are responsible for its being produced and for the harm it causes children .
Mr President , thank you for the well-reasoned proposal of the rapporteur !
This is why all public post-boxes should be closed and it should only be possible to send letters at the post-office following official verification of ID .
The second point concerns telephones , because telephone calls can also be made anonymously .
All telephones should also be gotten rid of , except for a few telephone boxes which should , of course , be monitored by the police .
Then all fax machines should be gotten rid of as quickly as possible - nothing else springs to mind !
Thank you very much , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
European Refugee Fund
Mr President , because of its wealth , Western Europe is naturally a magnet for everyone seeking protection and fleeing persecution .
Our share in the task arising from a growing influx of refugees must , of course , correspond in scope and importance to our prosperity and to our global and historical role .
But encounters between people from different cultures are not always simple , and they should therefore be helped along , just as refugees should be given support to begin new lives in their new locations .
The Member States each tackle these matters in very different ways , and rightly so , because they each start from perspectives within their different cultures and traditions .
However , all refugees have some basic needs in common , and special groups need professional help and support so that they can again start to live lives appropriate to human beings .
What is more , they need advice and guidance from the authorities in their new countries and in connection with their actual seeking of asylum .
All refugees begin with a dream of returning home .
For some , this becomes a reality but , for others , the period in exile proves to be so long that returning home is unrealistic .
They acquire children and friends and a new life for themselves . The children put down roots in the new country , and these become stronger than their parents ' roots in the old country .
Integration and repatriation are not , therefore , opposed to each other , and integration is not only for people who wish to move country for good .
It is also of significant help to those who subsequently return home .
It may , in fact , prove to be a prerequisite of successful repatriation .
I do not , therefore , understand why some people want to distinguish between displaced persons and refugees .
Responsibilities in Europe are unfairly distributed in relation both to the Member States ' size and prosperity .
The European Refugee Fund is a first and very modest attempt to distribute resources in proportion to the tasks which individual Member States promise to undertake .
It is not a question of the ratio between the number of refugees and the number of existing citizens . It is a question of the actual task which is to be undertaken .
It is not about relative numbers , but actual numbers .
I think that some of the amendments from the Group of the European People ' s Party and the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party must be based upon a misunderstanding in this area .
I hope the discussion may make it a little clearer what the thinking here is .
But because the task is a considerable one and because it has been unfairly distributed , it is naturally sad that the fund in question should be so small .
We are talking about EUR 26 million to cover the fixed expenses of the current work , distributed among 15 Member States .
Not much is , in fact , being given to those Member States which really have taken a considerable degree of responsibility upon themselves .
By German or Italian reckoning , the amount must seem tiny .
In addition , there is , of course , some uncertainty about the fund ' s financial future .
All in all , however , the European Refugee Fund is , in fact , to be regarded as a start .
Mr President , I would like to warmly congratulate the rapporteur on her report and would also like to thank her for the cooperation I have received in my capacity as draftsperson of the opinion .
I was very excited when I read the Commission ' s proposal .
The Commission is obviously on the right track .
It is important that the financial responsibility for refugees be distributed among Member States .
However , the Committee on Budgets is raising two objections .
Firstly , no consideration is given to the Financial Regulation .
Indeed , the programme is multiannual , whilst the financial calculations have only been made for one year .
The second objection is more extensive .
The Member States will , however , need to set up all kinds of structures and procedures in order to share out the money .
In this way , solidarity among Member States and solidarity with those seeking protection threatens to be encumbered by a disproportionately high administrative burden .
The Committee on Budgets therefore suggests that the present proposal with the amounts quoted could be considered as an experiment , a very commendable experiment at that .
But a real European Refugee Fund will cost a great deal more than that .
It will need to be investigated exactly how much more this would cost , and the Committee on Budgets has decided unanimously that we expect the outcome of this investigation before 31 March 2001 .
The Commission is on the right track .
We should not , therefore , get distracted by restrictions upon the financial perspective as long as the net result is to be positive .
Mr President , firstly , I too should like to thank Mrs Frahm for her work and willingness to support a number of amendments , both from the committee and from myself .
This has all too often been a very rushed process which has not allowed those of us involved to collaborate as we would have wished to find the best solutions to certain problems .
I would particularly cite the example of the allocation of the funding which does not even meet the Commission 's intention to give particular consideration to the Cohesion Fund countries .
So the proposed review process becomes essential .
Asylum-seekers are not a burden but a responsibility .
The European Union Member States are the chosen destination of comparatively few , compared with the world 's poor countries such as those in Africa .
A proposed amendment from our committee requires that all measures under this fund should be based on an approach designed to prevent any outbreak of xenophobia , racism , discrimination or inequality .
A change to the funding proposed by our committee aims to give a minimum to each state , which could be used to promote public awareness .
Not to take such an approach would be short-sighted , as others have already pointed out .
The committee also proposed that there should be greater partnership at Member State level in determining and evaluating how the money should be used , including the involvement of refugee organisations themselves .
We also want it to be a duty for the committee assisting the Commission to consult with other organisations .
How we deal with the dispossessed is an issue for society as a whole , not just for governments .
Mr President , my Group is highly delighted with the proposal to set up a European Refugee Fund and also with the way in which Mrs Frahm has tackled this problem in her role as rapporteur .
The asylum policy urgently needs a European approach .
As Europeans , we do not want that sort of policy .
We most certainly do not want one country to shift its responsibility to another .
Setting up this fund is therefore a step in the right direction .
It provisionally brings the desired solidarity within the European Union symbolically into focus .
It is only right that the countries which do a great deal per capita of the population should be the first to receive financial support .
This is also the thrust of the amendment tabled by my Group .
Subsequently , the aid figures will need to correlate with the absolute numbers .
I suggest including these two values in an algebraic formula , a task which I pass on to the officials with pleasure .
The tasks supported by the fund are covered in the proposal and by the rapporteur .
We are extremely pleased with the broad support for our concept of tailor-made solutions .
Individual refugees gain from a dynamic approach to their integration in all kinds of areas within the European Union , such as permanent jobs , housing , the settling of whole families etc .
Displaced persons , on the other hand , have been driven out en masse and against their will and want to return to their home country .
For them , it is important to optimise their chance of repatriation with dignity .
In this respect , Amendment No 19 deals with refugees , while Amendment No 21 focuses on displaced persons .
We should really spell this out a little more clearly .
In my opinion - and this is my personal opinion - integration should also include the recognition of the religions of the new minorities .
I have been informed that the European Commission is carrying out a comparative study into the asylum policy of the Member States .
I am very curious to see whether this report will be published before long .
It could , in itself , contribute towards the common policy based on best practices . It is also vital that this report is made available as soon as possible .
However , perhaps this is also happening elsewhere .
In my opinion , the Commission should keep its finger on the pulse , in a tactful manner , of course , but a finger on the pulse nonetheless .
It makes sense that the fund should mainly focus on improving the procedures , but at least as interesting is the Community ' s approach to the phenomenon of displaced persons .
After all , this is a category which- more than anything - is typified by the need for security , without choosing a particular EU Member State as such .
We are also in favour of EU aid being earmarked for a common follow-up scheme which monitors the experiences of repatriates and which also offers a certain level of guarantee .
It goes without saying that we , as Christian Democrats , welcome the efforts of private organisations and those of refugees and displaced persons themselves with open arms .
On behalf of my Group , I wish this new type of Structural Fund , because this is what it comes down to , every success .
Mr President , my Group welcomes this proposal .
It is important that this instrument should remain in force for the entire five-year period and that the core elements of a common asylum system should be codified within this period .
The Fund should help to balance up the differences between Member States in the acceptance and integration of persons in need of protection .
A precondition for this is that the various factors must be given due consideration in allocating the money .
It is necessary that the legal basis for the Fund should be adopted as soon as possible so as to ensure continuous EU financing of refugee projects .
I welcome the fact that , under Article 5 , the money for routine projects is to be separated from emergency aid measures . Mass refugee situations require special measures and separate budgetary allocations .
Only in this way can routine long-term measures also be maintained .
The effective distribution of responsibilities which the Fund is striving for can only be achieved in the long term if the existing problems of widely divergent capacities are tackled .
This requires additional support for the Member States with a less well established asylum system .
I therefore consider that a fixed sum for the Member States which are experiencing difficulties in establishing their asylum system is advisable .
I am of the opinion that the Fund should finance measures to inform the public concerning the policy and practice of the Member States with regard to refugees , asylum seekers and other temporarily protected persons .
The positive results of such activities in the past speak in favour of the continuation of such financial support , which should be made available to every eligible applicant .
I congratulate Mrs Frahm on her excellent report and gladly support the request of Mrs Frahm and Mrs Buitenweg for the addition of this sum to the Refugee Fund .
Mr President , in Denmark , Pernille Frahm and her party have led the way in the struggle against what they call " more Union " .
They campaigned against Denmark ' s joining the single currency , which we are to vote on in September , and they have been on the " no " side in four out of the five previous Danish referenda .
To cap it all , she wants more money transferred from the national Refugee Councils to their EU equivalent .
I agree .
It is , therefore , also a good thing that the EU should be able to come up with aid in support of large influxes of refugees .
We saw the need during the war in Kosovo .
Just imagine if a great many more Kosovars could have been helped in neighbouring Macedonia and Albania .
They would have much preferred this than to have been sent thousands of kilometres away to distant countries .
If there are any who stand united on this issue , they are Pernille Frahm ' s and my own party .
If we could make Pernille Frahm rapporteur for European cooperation , too , then I am sure that we could agree about that issue as well .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , it is with great relief that we welcomed the proposed Council decision on the creation of a European Refugee Fund .
After Kosovo , Chechnya , Afghanistan , to cite but a few of the tragedies which bathe our planet in blood , creating such a body is an increasingly urgent matter .
The report shows the extent to which parliamentary activity can be beneficial to Europe .
We therefore support these motions .
We shall here mention only three points .
Firstly , if there is one point on which the report is not satisfactory , it is financial resources .
Very few resources are allocated to the Fund , considering the scale of its activities - improving reception conditions , integrating persons benefiting from international protection , encouraging voluntary return by facilitating reintegration in the country of origin .
These are huge tasks requiring amounts far greater than those initially planned .
Secondly , improving reception conditions should also include providing access to health care for all , the provision of education for children , and also training .
Thirdly , many of us are calling for NGOs and the associations working on a day-to-day basis with refugees to be consulted , both in defining the necessary programmes and in their implementation .
It would be a serious mistake to exclude the very women and men who often , with their invaluable experience , make good the omissions of the State , from the process .
Finally , in conclusion , I should like once again to stress the ever more insistent need for Member States to arrive quickly at common legislation in matters of asylum .
It is only this advance which will make it possible to allow this European Fund to make a proper impact .
And one cannot in all decency receive money from the EU if one will not also allow the EU to decide which refugees are to be allocated to which countries .
I think it is the individual countries ' responsibility to finance their refugee policies themselves and , for that reason alone , I have to vote against this report .
On Danish television , representatives of the High Commission for Refugees in Geneva have expressed the view that only one in ten asylum seekers are genuine applicants .
If , as in Denmark , the majority of applicants are given asylum or residence permits , then legitimate refugees are left in the lurch .
Denmark offers the world ' s highest level of financial aid to refugees and therefore attracts many who are merely economic refugees .
And that is not what the Convention on Refugees is about .
I nonetheless agree with Mrs Frahm about one thing , namely that EUR 26 million is far , far too low a level .
In Denmark alone , the level of aid is EUR 2 billion per year so that the present little fund is of absolutely no effect .
We therefore think we need to manage the whole issue of apportioning and prioritising our efforts concerning refugees in a far more rational way .
I welcome the proposal because it clearly defines the target groups , because the acceptance conditions will be improved and the integration of refugees supported , and because the re-integration of temporary refugees will be promoted .
However , I do not share the view that Mrs Frahm ' s report can be accepted almost without criticism because I consider that measures which go beyond these defined responsibilities are inappropriate .
I also do not support your proposals for measures which are incompatible with the particular groups .
When it comes to refugees , the measures should be different to those for displaced persons .
You cannot , in the case of displaced persons whose main concern is to return to their homeland , require that the host country integrate them into the labour market .
That contradicts the basic intention .
However , we must seek to make an amendment when it comes to the allocation of funds , taking the number of refugees or displaced persons per capita of the population of a Member State as the basis .
You reject this and I simply cannot see why , because this is the first point of contact where we can provide specific help , accelerate processes and promote refugee integration .
However , in all the proposed measures , we must not fail to recognise that one objective has not been addressed here , namely taking into account the distribution of the refugee burden .
Please do so in implementing the measures which are necessary and positive .
Mr President , firstly , I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur , Mrs Frahm , because I believe she has produced a really good piece of work .
Furthermore , her report expresses this Parliament ' s pleasure . For us , the establishment of this Fund is good news .
Since 1997 , we have been trying to carry out coherent work in this respect , and we have had some successes .
Those are three different areas of work .
We have to safeguard all three , and I agree that we must maintain a reserve fund in order to deal with the arrival of displaced persons without endangering the development of better infrastructures and practices within the Union .
The Member States have a major role to play in this respect and must make considerable efforts .
Furthermore , using the practices already developed for the management of those funds could promote interaction between them .
We must develop policies which are coherent with both funds .
Lastly , I would like to add my voice to those which have called for a greater financial contribution to the European Refugee Fund .
Mr President , firstly I would also like to thank the rapporteur , Mrs Frahm , for this excellent and extensive report .
However , as she herself did , I would like to point out a few problems which , in our opinion , are still important and which need to be remedied .
The allocation criteria , which are based on the average number of asylum applicants and recognised refugees and the nature of the projects , are perhaps not adequate to achieve a fair distribution of the burden .
In practice , the countries which take in the greatest number of refugees will probably receive the most funds .
We must also deal with the actual money to be allocated , which must be in proportion to the stated objectives .
Financing must be ensured up to 2004 .
So far , the balance sheet has not made any clear statement for the period after 2001 .
If we can resolve this issue , then we should do so .
Only in this way can the European Refugee Fund be used sensibly and efficiently .
The proposal is to establish a permanent European Fund distributing appropriations to assist Member States in managing their countries ' usual flow of refugees , genuine or not .
This proposal raises many questions .
Are Member States themselves no longer capable of managing the refugees they receive in normal circumstances ?
How would their situation be improved by giving money to Brussels , only to have Brussels immediately give it back to them ?
Will some countries be net contributors and others , net recipients , and if so , which ?
The answers to these questions cannot be found anywhere in the reports passed on to us .
We cannot even find a statistical table of the numbers of refugees currently residing in the various countries of Europe .
Once again we are being asked to take an important decision while being kept in the dark .
This is a pernicious effect which insurers are familiar with .
This risk is , in turn , all the greater since the proposed text is extremely vague when it comes to defining the type of person that qualifies as a refugee .
- ( PT ) Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , many of us have repeatedly called for the European Refugee Fund to be established .
The persuasive examples of what happened in Kosovo - and on a smaller scale , in East Timor - proved necessary , in order to support the evidence that this fund was needed .
I would therefore like to emphasise something that Mr Pirker has already mentioned , and that is the difference between migration and temporary refugees .
The two situations are quite different and require different responses .
To confuse them would be to give way to populist rhetoric .
I would also like to stress the need to speed up the establishment of legal instruments which will facilitate the mobilisation of funds that have already been earmarked for this purpose .
Specific rules will also have to be laid down covering the criteria and organisational provisions for the allocation of these funds and for activating the respective monitoring mechanisms .
You know better than I do that the proposed Council decision on this Fund was adopted by the Commission on 14 December 1999 .
It is in line with an approach , my own personal approach , which I put forward during my hearing before the European Parliament ' s Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs .
I think that adopting this Fund contribute to showing that , in this area , the European Union as such can provide added value for the efforts of each individual Member State .
We are setting up a European Refugee Fund for an initial period of five years .
The total appropriation for 2000 is EUR 36 million , which includes EUR 10 million for emergency aid .
I quite understand the rapporteur ' s comments to the effect that this amount is inadequate given the needs and ambitions of the Fund itself .
This is , I feel , an initial step in the right direction .
I can understand why proposals were put forward to consider the number of refugees in relation to the overall population in each Member State .
I am perfectly willing to look into any practical solutions but it is not enough to simply state the principle .
A practical solution must be found , and I have to tell you that that is no easy matter .
The European Refugee Fund will be able to cofinance Member State actions up to 50 % , a level which can be increased to 75 % for Member States benefiting from the Cohesion Fund .
The proposed decision also provides for the possibility of financing emergency measures in the event of a massive influx of refugees from a reserve of EUR 10 million .
In this respect , it provides an initial response to the request made by the European Council in Tampere .
Together with my fellow Commissioner , Michaele Schreyer , I have already initiated discussions on the ways of utilising , in the event of an emergency , the maximum possible resources suited to the needs of the situation .
The selection and administration of Fund projects , as regards structural aspects , are delegated to the Member States within the framework of cofinancing requests .
Implementation , monitoring , follow-up and assessment arrangements are based on the existing conditions for Structural Funds .
The principle of minimal Fund participation enables each Member State to provide effective support , regardless of the extent of flows of refugees .
The Commission cannot , however , go along with other sets of amendments , particularly those on budgetary methods .
These will , in any case , become irrelevant if the budgetary authority ratifies the Commission ' s proposals to set the allocation for the Fund at EUR 216 million for the five years .
It cannot align itself with the amendments on the Member States ' strategy and on setting up a partnership with the various operators affected by asylum policy .
This is an initial experiment with a decentralised asylum-related programme . The competent national administrations are by no means familiar with these procedures .
Finally , with regard to the amendments for cooperation with candidate countries , I think we must be quite clear on this .
The Fund is intended to contribute to balancing Member State efforts .
These modest enough resources should not be watered down further by the inclusion of secondary objectives .
In conclusion , Mr President , the Commission is delighted to see the European Parliament support this initiative .
Thank you very much , Mr Vitorino .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
Electronic money institutions and credit institutions
The next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading ( A5-0080 / 2000 ) on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on :
the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the taking up , the pursuit and the prudential supervision of electronic money institutions
[ C5-0306 / 1999 - 1998 / 0252 ( COD ) ] ;
( Rapporteur : Mrs Kauppi )
We therefore welcome the directive .
We also welcome the fact that the non-banking sector will be subjected in this regard to a degree of banking supervision and that a minimum reserve requirement will be stipulated .
We also welcome the fact that there are no exemptions to the change-back obligation .
What are we talking about here ?
What effects will these comprehensive exemption provisions have on currency stability ?
Under certain circumstances , could the extensive nature of these exemption provisions not lead to circumventions , thus making the exception the rule ?
This matter of monitoring currency holdings and stability and the matter of whether the exception would not thus become the rule have lead to the motions for amendment .
We will monitor this .
Mr President , electronic money does not yet have the same importance in the European Union as e-commerce , e-business , e-Europe .
We must ensure , of course , that we in Europe also increase our competitiveness in this area vis--vis the United States .
The introduction of the Euro will undoubtedly have a positive effect and will mean that the time has also come for us to establish uniform regulations to safeguard electronic commerce .
It has to be said that electronic money in the European Union today enjoys rarity value rather than common usage .
This must change !
In this regard I must also point out that within the European Union these electronic payment systems also fail to work because interoperability is not guaranteed .
I think that we should do something about this if we want to promote this means of payment in future .
We must also do it in the interests of consumers , because costs will be saved .
However , the issuing of electronic money is not just about the simplification or safeguarding of payment processes , but in practice also concerns financial stability and the functioning of the payment systems .
I think that this is the particular cause of the fear of instability instead of the stability which we want to ensure in the European Union .
I therefore think that Article 8 , which provides for an extension of the conditions for exemption , creates excessive discretionary powers .
This could result in many electronic money institutions not being affected by the regulations applicable to credit institutions .
The Council ' s amendments , which extend the scope of money , cannot be in the interest of the consumer .
We need electronic money which is valid in a given environment .
For this reason , it must cover the entire European area and not just a national area .
I also think that institutions issuing e-money should be treated as equal .
It is , of course , also important to consider the role of the European Central Bank - controlling the amount of money in circulation , for example .
However , I am thinking primarily of consumers .
Even if e-money can be used without limit on the Internet and for mobile telephones , this does not mean that it might not be counterproductive .
For this reason I cannot support the new wording of Article 8c .
I think that we must do everything possible to increase consumer confidence in the electronic money age and not to build consumer foundations which have no stability .
The concerns , particularly about the waiver , are misguided precisely because it would be very limited : it would be limited to only EUR 150 on any particular card .
The reality is that other Community central banks - notably the Swedish Riksbank , the Bank of England - do not have these concerns about money creation .
If we look at the reality of the ECB 's concerns over the last few years , we can see that there has not been a stable relationship between the money supply and the growth of nominal income .
There has been a substantial variation in the velocity of circulation because of new developments within the financial services industry and this is merely another one of those .
Therefore , in the years before the ECB took charge of euro-zone monetary policy , the Bundesbank itself was not able to respect the growth of its money supply targets .
That is very regrettable .
There are a lot of safeguards that the Commission has put in here that the Council has carefully discussed and I very much hope that we will fully support the Council common position on this matter .
Mr President , as from January 1999 , the euro has been the new currency for most of the European Union .
Since then there have been no more exchange rate risks and , in theory , the cost to consumers of transferring money across borders and of changing cash from one euro-zone currency to another should have reduced sharply .
There are obligations on financial institutions within the Union to substantially reduce the cost to consumers of transferring money from one euro-zone to the other .
We may recall that the European Consumers ' Association , which represents the consumers of the European Union , carried out an extensive survey of charges for cross-border payments only last year .
The conclusion of that survey clearly demonstrated that costs for consumers of transferring money from one country to another in Europe are still too high .
With the forecast growth in electronic shopping over the next few years , heavy bank fees for money changes will be a serious disincentive for consumers to shop over the Internet .
It is important that consumers are reassured in relation to electronic payments by establishing a legal framework .
This survey also showed that consumers are still charged a lot more for making cross-border transfers than they are for making national transfers .
This does not make sense .
Euro currency has removed exchange rate risks and costs should have reduced substantially .
I welcome the directive on cross-border credit transfers which is now in force within the Union .
In conclusion , I strongly believe that the new directive on cross-border transfers is good news for the consumers of the Union . It is also good news for financial institutions .
Mr President , like some of the previous speakers this evening , I am very pleased the Council came forward with this proposal .
I do not think that it will be helped by the amendments being proposed inside this Parliament today and indeed in our committee .
Some of the opportunities of this nascent market , which we are now seeing emerge in the European Union , will be affected by some of the suggestions being made .
Because of the very limits that Mr Huhne talked about , this is , of course , very closely controlled by the Council 's proposed waiver and particularly by some of the sensible compromises suggested earlier .
Be in no doubt about that , this legislation would fall .
Mr President , may I begin by expressing the heartfelt thanks of the Commission for the work that has been done by Mrs Kauppi .
May I also express the appreciation of the European Commission for the continuing support from this Parliament for the e-money initiative and , indeed , for all the Commission 's e-commerce initiatives .
The Commission has noticed the high level of cooperation between Parliament , Council and Commission in reaching an early agreement on the e-money proposals .
As evidence thereof perhaps I may cite the high number of amendments put forward by Parliament , amendments which were then accepted by the Council and by the Commission .
We certainly have taken due cognisance of the wishes expressed by this Parliament , and we have done our best to integrate them in the proposals that are now in front of you , as noted by Mr Huhne .
In relation now to the specific amendments , I should like to say the following . The first two that deal with redeemability at par value introduce unnecessary legal uncertainty into the text .
The provision on redeemability , which was proposed by this Parliament at the first reading - a first reading which took place almost a year ago - and was accepted by the Council , is clear .
It means that e-money must be redeemed for cash on request minus any deductions for legitimate costs in carrying out the transactions .
It seems to me that is a perfectly reasonable position .
The recognition of allowing the deduction of reasonable costs conflicts with an obligation to redeem at par value .
On this basis , and for this reason , I cannot regrettably accept the first two amendments .
These provisions are optional , they are limited in their application to specific identifiable schemes and they are on a case by case basis .
May I add that schemes which benefit from any waiver will not benefit from the European passport .
They will continue to be credit institutions and therefore fall within the monetary control of the European Central Bank in the euro-zone .
Therefore , the justification for their deletion on the basis of monetary policy concerns is unfounded .
They continue to report to the competent authorities on a periodic basis .
While on this point , I should like to say that I am a little intrigued by questions put and remarks made by Members of this Parliament on monetary stability and monetary supply .
As stated by Mr Skinner , under the e-money procedure the customer first pays in his money and then gets the equivalent amount of electronic money .
In other words , in the whole process not an iota of money is created .
Therefore considerations of monetary supply or monetary stability - as one Member put it , e-money as a vector of credit - simply do not apply .
E-money does not mean that money is created .
It means that money is paid into an institution and received in another form , but it is the same amount of money .
Therefore I should like to lay these apprehensions to rest .
There is no possibility that monetary instability will arise from the phenomenon of e-money .
We want those rules .
We want them to be harmonised , not least because the citizens of the European Union want that .
If these two directives fail it will be detrimental to European consumers , businesses and the whole e-commerce initiative .
If there are legitimate concerns or if issues which have not yet been identified arise in the next few years , they can always be taken into account in the review of the application of the directives .
The Commission is committed to a review , which will take place three years after the coming into force of the directives .
Regrettably , therefore , I cannot accept Amendments Nos 3 or 4 .
As far as the Commission is concerned we would like them to be rejected by Parliament , in the same way as Amendments Nos 1 and 2 will hopefully be rejected .
In the light of these considerations , I ask Parliament most earnestly to reconsider its amendments for fear that the directives will be lost and deformed in the conciliation process .
That concludes the debate .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
Animal nutrition inspections
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , Commissioner , practice has shown that scandals and crises can have a cleansing effect and can help improve legislation .
This is most certainly the case for all legislation related to food safety , either directly or indirectly .
There are ample examples to prove this .
Another example is the clenbuterol scandal which led to the slaughter of more than 15 000 calves in North Rhine-Westphalia in 1988 and which brought about a change in the original legislation of the hormone directives in 1996 .
Scandals can have a cleansing effect .
This is also evident today as we scrutinise the amendment to Directive 95 / 53 at second reading .
Once again , this amendment has been prompted by a minor scandal , namely the importing of citrus pulp from Brazil contaminated with dioxin .
Citrus pulp is used as a feed for dairy cows and this is how dioxin ended up in milk for public consumption .
The authorities in Baden-Wrttemberg discovered this , got the ball rolling and established that between December 1997 and February 1998 , a total of nearly 106 000 tonnes of contaminated pulp entered the European Union .
The scandal taught us that the Commission did not have the means to act forcefully in emergencies .
As a result , the Commission presented , at the request of the Member States , a proposal to amend the present directive on 4 November 1998 .
As early as 16 December of that same year , Parliament assented to this proposal without tabling one single amendment .
After the Treaty of Amsterdam came into effect , the Commission immediately changed the legal basis of 100 A to 152 .
On 15 November last , the Council laid down the present common position .
The Council made a few editorial changes , which were not a problem for us at the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy .
What does cause a problem for us , however , is the way in which the Council has robbed the Commission of the ability to act immediately in case of an emergency .
This legislation offers us various procedures for transferring the powers of the Council to the Commission .
Today , we should focus on Articles 5 and 6 of the Council Decision .
Article 5 provides for a regulatory procedure , Article 6 for a safeguard procedure .
The original Commission proposal , as it was approved by our Parliament at first reading , was clearly written in the spirit of the existing safeguard procedure .
The Council would now like to do away with it in its common position and replace it by the regulatory procedure .
It should , however , be clear to all MEPs that the Commission cannot act independently according to this latter procedure and must always seek permission from the Council .
After the citrus pulp scandal , the Member States themselves requested that the Commission should act .
I am of the opinion that we should give the Commission the opportunity to act swiftly .
The four amendments which have been tabled aim to ensure that Article 6 of comitology legislation , i.e. the safeguard procedure , can be applied .
The Commission will then be able to act immediately in cases of emergency and can then , for example , suspend the importing of products which would harm public and animal health .
The Council will then have 30 days to change , supplement or even reverse this decision .
If the Council fails to act during these 30 days , the measures enacted by the Commission will then lapse .
I believe that this is good working practice - so far , the Council has never abused this kind of power - and it therefore deserves our support , against the wishes of the Council .
We should all bear in mind that this dossier is only an intermediate step .
On the day my report was approved in the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy , the European Commission submitted a new proposal to amend Directive 95 / 53 / EC .
It immediately drew lessons from the dioxin crisis .
If Parliament and the Council adopt the same line as the Commission , a whole chapter will be devoted to further developing the safeguard clause and animal feed will come under a rapid system .
In fact , these matters are included in the White Paper and have helped the Commission keep its initial promises on the White Paper with regard to food safety .
Mr President , I am in favour of adopting the four amendments tomorrow and thus giving the Commission our full support .
We should join forces with the Commission against the Council and move towards a conciliation procedure .
Mr President , Commissioner , in recent years the numerous problems and crises in the area of animal nutrition have sadly brought home to us the importance of official animal nutrition inspections .
The rapporteur , Mr Staes , has mentioned some here .
We know that animal feedingstuffs are the first link in the food chain which ends with humans , and animal feedingstuffs must therefore be safe .
BSE and dioxin are only the best known watchwords in this area , which repeatedly make many in the European Union flinch and ask questions to which we , as those with political responsibility , must provide answers .
Such questions as : what advantage is there in the internal market if it can lead to unchecked dangers ?
Who is protecting us and who is providing the safeguards ?
With the consent of these countries , it will also be possible to carry out on-the-spot inspections .
This is justified because anyone who wants to trade with us must meet our conditions and supply safe goods .
In respect of the Commission proposal , which Parliament approved at first reading without amendments , the Council has now made amendments to its common position which we do not wish to support .
The Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy is now submitting four amendments in plenary to Mr Staes ' s report .
This report has been adopted unanimously in committee and will therefore be supported by all groups .
The original Commission proposal has thus been readopted by us .
We consider that it is absolutely imperative that in urgent cases we can act rapidly .
The Commission must be given the necessary powers here as guardian of the treaties .
The Council is then obliged , within 30 days , to process these measures , to validate them and to legitimise or , if necessary , reject them .
I do not think we need a new committee ; we already have the permanent animal nutrition committee .
In Germany we have a saying which runs : " when I don ' t know what to do next , I appoint a committee " .
Too many committees cause delays and , ultimately , confusion .
We must use the existing facilities and use them efficiently .
Europe and the internal market can only exist if they are also accepted by the citizens and the consumers .
For this they need confidence , and confidence only comes through openness and transparency .
The scandals which we have all discussed show that transparency and openness are becoming more and more important .
The Member States , the Council and the European Commission must look upon one another as natural partners which support one another and work together constructively to protect citizens and consumers in a manner which engenders confidence .
Finally , I must sincerely thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and balanced report .
Mr President , the rapporteur said in his introduction that crises have a cleansing effect .
I listened to him and hope that what he said is right .
He is evidently more optimistic than I am .
I do not really think that crises have a purifying effect .
If crises were to have a purifying effect , then Agriculture Ministers would have rather more understanding than they evidently do .
Such is life !
It would be nice if he could be made aware of this , but that is probably unlikely .
The rapporteur , and also Mrs Kla , who has just spoken , have pointed out that Parliament allowed the Commission proposal to pass through first reading unamended .
This means that the institutions who are not always in agreement were , on this occasion , agreed .
And what has the Council learnt from this ?
It was the Council ( and I say this again in all clarity , drawing in part on my own experiences of recent years ) which basically got us into the BSE scandal .
It was not this Parliament , and only to a very minor extent the Commission . It was the Council of Ministers who tried repeatedly to keep things under wraps .
So what has it learnt from the BSE crisis ?
Has it learnt that it is better to be transparent ?
Has it learnt that it is better to permit safeguard options and safeguard clauses ?
Has it learnt that rapid action is needed ?
It has learnt none of these things !
It has submitted to us a common position in which the option to have a safeguard clause will actually be taken away from the Commission .
It will not have the option to get involved quickly and unbureaucratically on the basis of safeguard clauses .
It will also not have the option to make unannounced on-the-spot inspections .
It will not be in a position to act quickly .
And it will also not need to inform the European Parliament , nor will it need to publish any inspection reports lest , heaven forbid , the public finds out something which worries it .
It is better to leave things in the hands of the Agriculture Ministers .
I can see the Council representative writing busily and I hope that this will also be passed on to the Presidency and the other members of the Council of Agriculture Ministers .
I am sorry if I am not being very amiable at the moment , and particularly with my cold I would much rather be mellow , but the fact is I am not .
I consider this common position to be scandalous !
I thank you for the fact that you will obviously now be able to table a motion for the primary inspection of European Union products , not just , as in this instance , products from third countries .
It only makes sense if we prevent this in unison and only then , Commissioner , does the White Paper on food safety , which you have presented , also make sense .
I therefore hope that , tomorrow , we will actually slap the Council of Ministers in the face by unanimously affirming the rapporteur ' s four amendments .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I do not have time to philosophise in just one minute .
But our impression is that the Council does not see this .
The Council does not appear to see that , after the dioxin crisis , every day since the start of the year there have been cases of mad cows just about everywhere in Europe .
The Council does not therefore see what we have seen , which is that as a follow-up to European legislation it is necessary to have structures to monitor and take fast action in the event of a problem .
In the context of the forthcoming establishment of the European health authority , it would therefore be advisable to allocate this body real resources in order to enable fast detection and thus prevent contagion .
I particularly appreciate the good collaboration with Parliament in this case .
Already at first reading , Parliament fully supported the Commission 's proposal .
The proposal aims at improving control measures in the field of animal nutrition . It intends to harmonise inspection procedures for all products imported from third countries .
The proposal also extends the legal basis to carry out on-the-spot inspections , both in Member States and in third countries .
As a matter of fact , the dioxin contamination has clearly shown how important rapid action is , in particular when a danger spreads from the feed to the food chain .
I should also highlight the fact that similar provisions already exist in food and veterinary legislation and there is no evidence of misuse of this instrument .
The Commission , although not opposed to most of the amendments made by the Council , strongly rejected the Council amendment concerning the safeguard procedure .
Council has denied the possibility for the Commission to take immediate action in emergency cases without consulting Member States beforehand .
The possibility for the Commission situations to react quickly in emergency cases even before consulting Member States is a landmark question .
The discussion in the present case constitutes an important precedent for the future .
Following the dioxin crisis of May 1999 , the Commission announced legislative acts to improve the legal provisions regulating feed safety .
In the recent proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council adopted on 21 March , the Commission introduced the same safeguard clause concerning feedingstuffs produced within the European Union .
Consequently , this question will also be relevant for several measures on feedingstuffs which are of vital importance and which are announced in the White Paper on food safety .
For all these reasons , I can fully accept Amendments Nos 1 , 2 , and 4 by which Parliament reintroduces the original provision on safeguard procedures .
Although it is not so important as the other amendments , I can also accept Amendment No 3 regarding the carrying out of on-the-spot inspections .
That concludes the debate .
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon .
Food additives other than colours and sweeteners
- ( FR ) Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , we are now going to discuss a second aspect of the food safety issue .
The fact is , over the years , more and more additives have been used in foodstuffs , in connection , in particular , with the industrialisation of food production .
When I say ' more and more ' , you only have to look at the figures .
A survey of the current situation shows that 307 additives are authorised within the European Union .
We are effectively working with a positive list .
All the additives given on this list are authorised ; any not included are , by the same token , prohibited .
That makes 307 authorised additives , only 163 of which may be considered as totally harmless , indicating that many others are either suspect or actually cause food safety-related problems .
I am thinking in particular of the problem of allergies .
What is being proposed today ?
Not reducing the list , but extending it a little further since the Commission has made nine proposals , either to add certain additives to the list or to extend the uses of some already authorised additives .
In principle , there are three criteria governing the acceptance of a new additive : technological need , usefulness for the consumer and harmlessness .
It is common knowledge today that the precautionary principle was practically unheard of seven or eight years ago , whereas today it has come to the fore .
The situation must therefore be reviewed from a different perspective to the one we took a few years ago .
Of the Commission ' s nine proposals , we think that five are suspect for one reason or another .
I shall mention them quickly . Firstly , an additive called sodium alginate is proposed for use on grated carrots .
The usefulness for the consumer is that the grated carrots will appear to be ' fresh ' even though they are actually not .
This is quite clear , just from reading the relevant literature .
It is not , therefore , necessarily to be recommended .
In consideration of the fact that this involves deception of the consumer rather than improving the situation for the consumer , our opinion is that this additive must not be accepted .
There is another additive which presents a huge problem , E467 .
I will refrain from giving its official name because it is far too long and complex , and I think it would be even harder to translate .
E467 is problematic in terms of assessing its harmlessness , because it contains extremely dangerous impurities .
One such impurity is ethylene oxide , which the relevant scientific authorities recognise is a proven carcinogen .
We must consequently reject this one too .
Finally , three other additives are proposed as propellants .
These are inflammable gases - butane , isobutane and propane .
That is a brief overview of the problem .
As far as we are concerned there are five additives which should not be authorised , and the four others do not seem to present any problem , based on a reading of the scientific literature about them .
As we are not absolutist , we consider that they may be accepted .
I think it is important , Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , to reverse the trend in the current legislation on additives .
The Commission has announced a radical revision of the directive .
Quite the contrary , we think we should move towards a much more limited list , and remove the most suspect additives from the list .
I have counted around fifty of these myself .
Others should be used far less widely .
I am thinking , for example , of nitrites , nitrates and sulphites which are known to present proven health problems .
I would like to draw your attention to some of the issues that have been raised in this opinion of the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy .
The Committee found that the proposal for a directive does not follow the procedure specified for the basic directive on additives .
The amendments in the Commission ' s proposal are based on the needs expressed by a Member State , and the Scientific Committee for Food has delivered a favourable opinion on the amendments in question .
Now we are talking about allowing the use of a few new additives .
This raises a few questions .
The Scientific Committee for Food has delivered a favourable report on proposals by Member States concerning additives .
Has it not shown itself capable of the task in question or has the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy indeed gone too far in its interpretation of the precautionary principle ?
To what extent has the point of view of industry been taken into account in the report ?
Should not the question of innovations and the use of better additives , as well as competitiveness of the European food industry , be given greater consideration ?
We might also ask how Parliament in future will manage its enormous task if it tackles issues so meticulously .
Should Parliament not decide on goals and procedures whereby matters such as the safe introduction of new additives can be assured ?
If the report is adopted in the form in which it has been presented , could not the adoption procedure regarding new additives be reformed once and for all and the whole additives list revised ?
I would ask the rapporteur in question , and the representative of the Commission also , to reply to these questions .
Mr President , the way in which we feed ourselves is an expression of how we live .
Some people criticise what I would call the modern western lifestyle , rightly or wrongly .
The answer to this question is often determined by the choices we make .
What matters to the European People ' s Party is that the consumer has choices .
This presupposes both the availability of information and the guarantee that what is on offer on the market does not present any health risks and that all products are manufactured in accordance with current rules and procedures .
As far as additives are concerned , the basic rules are enshrined in the 1989 Framework Directive .
This directive stipulates that an additive shall only be admitted if there is sufficient technological need , if there is no risk to the health of the consumer and if the consumer is not misled in the process .
In our view , the latter condition has not been met regarding the admission of sodium alginate in peeled and sliced carrots .
If consumers buy fresh carrots , they must be able to assume that these are untreated and not processed and they do not expect them to be dipped in a preservative .
To assess whether the use of additives is necessary , the Framework Directive lists various accepted objectives .
One of these is the supply of ingredients or components of foodstuffs to patients with dietary needs .
The use of E 467 - I will not attempt to pronounce the full word - as proposed by the Commission , seems to meet this requirement .
Finally , the Framework Directive also stipulates that facilitating the manufacture and preparation of foodstuffs is an acceptable criterion of usefulness .
In the light of this , our Group is not really opposed to permitting three additives in baking sprays , unlike the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy .
All other amendments tabled by this committee receive our support , including the amendment tabled by the PSE Group .
I would like to add the following if you will allow me .
Something was added at the end , but I do not think that this is the way forward and I would like to find out from the Commissioner whether he intends to do anything about this in the future .
Secondly , the effects on public health must obviously be assessed on a scientific basis .
For this purpose , we call on the Scientific Committee for Food for scientific opinions .
After the BSE crisis , the Scientific Committees were reformed at our request and , as we have said before , they have been reformed to our satisfaction .
We now have to make a decision : either we accept the opinions of the Scientific Committees in principle , or we do not ; but then these Scientific Committees will need to be reformed once again .
We cannot do a bit of both .
Fourthly , and on a final note , I would like to say a few words on the hierarchy of standards .
We have asked for a hierarchy of standards in the IGC report and we have also mentioned this elsewhere .
And all in order to disguise the products ' natural characteristics .
To top it all , we are in fact aware that a large number of them are harmful , and yet we still allow them to be used .
I think that Community policy in relation to the use of additives has developed in a quite irresponsible way .
I should therefore like to support Mr Lannoye ' s report .
I think a splendid piece of work has been carried out .
New additives ought to be refused and any increase in the quantity of accepted and permitted substances should be rejected .
Instead , I think the Commission needs seriously to rationalise the number of additives .
In the general remarks in his report , Mr Lannoye points to many substances which ought to be investigated , including antibiotics added directly to foodstuffs .
I should like to point out a further problem . It is a problem which Mr Lannoye also mentioned in his intervention , namely the question of adding nitrates and nitrites to meat products .
In my opinion , the quantities of these compounds that are permitted are way too excessive .
A major investigation by five consumer organisations in Europe has recently shown that a large proportion of meat products contains quite large quantities of nitrosamines .
Nitrosamine is a carcinogenic substance which is derived from , and produced by , nitrates and nitrites .
I think the situation is unacceptable in this area , but I do not see the investigation having made any impression upon the Commission .
I hope that Commissioner Byrne , who has assumed responsibility for this area , will examine the question of added amounts of nitrates and nitrites .
I think we have a serious problem in this regard and I hope he will confirm that this will be done .
Finally , I would say that , in my view , we need quite a thorough rationalisation of the quantity of additives in our foodstuffs .
Mr President , the report is concerned with supplementing a list of permitted additives with additional foodstuff additives , other than colouring agents and flavourings .
This means that the Commission suggests supplementing the list with additives which have not yet been used .
It does not , however , mean deleting any additives from the list .
In terms of food and food safety , the needs and wishes of the consumer need to be given more consideration than has been the case in the past .
That does not mean , of course , that we can ignore the interests of the foodstuff manufacturers or that we should turn our back on modern food production methods , as Mr Pojarno mentioned a moment ago .
It does mean , however , that food safety must be at the top of the agenda .
Whilst many additives are harmless , this does not mean that they all are .
And if harmlessness has not been established 100 % , there is no doubt that the only correct way forward is to ban the use of the product .
In addition , it is useful to get manufacturers to spell out the benefit of adding substances for the consumer .
The example of E401 or sodium alginate - a word which I can pronounce - has been mentioned . This makes stale carrots look fresh .
What consumer interest is served by doing this ?
What is in the interests of the consumer differs from one consumer to another and from one consumer group to the next .
But what is clear is that all consumers benefit from sound consumer information so that they are not misled .
This report literally takes a refreshing look at the problem , and not before time .
The rapporteur is to be congratulated on this and the report can count on the support of the liberal group .
Mr President , naturally we too wish to congratulate our colleagues .
Mr Lannoye has done an excellent job ; indeed , he has achieved what the Commission failed to .
The Commission only offers talk of the precautionary principle , whereas Mr Lannoye has shown in his report that it is also about implementing it in practice and actually making the precautionary principle a keynote .
I also fail to see what the Commission promised , i.e. transparency .
It is nothing less than consumer deception if we are giving the illusion of freshness which does not in reality exist .
Commissioner , you must finally come clean as to why you are not envisaging that unpacked foodstuffs , in particular fruit and vegetables , should also be compulsorily labelled .
I would also like to once again stress what Mr Lannoye has said .
This report makes clear that we need a reform of additives .
We cannot place hundreds of additives on the market simply because industry wants it .
It has nothing to do with competition that we reject what the Commission is proposing .
We actually need , as in Japan , a limited list of 70-100 additives and I would have liked to know what the Commissioner thinks of this .
Industry will then have to decide the ones it wants .
That would at least be an innovative viewpoint which makes competition the basis .
Mr Lannoye is right that we must lay our cards on the table in this regard and do justice to the precautionary principle .
Mr President , I should like to start by saying that , with Paul Lannoye as rapporteur , the report concerned has been placed in very competent hands , and I am able fully to support all his conclusions .
As is well known , there are three prior conditions which must be fulfilled if additives are to be included on the positive list .
There should be a technological need , the product should be useful to the consumer and there should be documentary proof of its being harmless .
Paul Lannoye rightly points out that none of the prerequisites are present in the case of sodium alginate .
The substance is not useful to the consumer . On the contrary , it directly misleads the consumer by making sliced carrots look fresh , even if they are not .
It is also very unfortunate that the synergy effect has not been investigated .
It is , on principle , very alarming that the Commission should be able to extend the list of additives just because the substances are permitted in parts of the EU .
This rule ought to be changed so that an additive can only be put on the positive list if there is a clearly documented technological need for it which is also , mind you , of benefit to consumers .
It is ironic to be having to deal with this proposal such a short time after the publication of the Commission ' s White Paper on Foodstuffs .
In the white paper , the Commission itself attaches importance to limiting the consumption of additives in order - as the Commission puts it - to thereby avoid negative effects on health .
The Commission also states that it wishes to guide consumers as best it can so that they themselves can make a choice .
On examining this proposed directive , the conclusion has to be drawn that there is very little connection between words and deeds in the EU ' s handling of additives .
I seem to remember that the original intention in drafting a positive list was partly that it should be possible to decide to remove additives from the list .
Current liberalisation of the quantity of permitted additives is worrying .
Let us , therefore , have the list shortened as soon as possible rather than extended .
The answer was unfortunately ' no ' and , in common with Mr Lund , I should like to see that ' no ' justified here today .
Mr President , I share in principle the opinion of the rapporteur that new additives in foodstuffs should not be approved if there is no actual need for them .
However , I would like to point out that we ought to consider the fact that there might be a regional or national tradition that justifies the approval of an additive .
The additive I am thinking of in this regard is ethylhydroxyethylcellulose .
This substance is no luxury and it is not addictive .
Ethylhydroxyethylcellulose has , however , been used for more than 20 years in Sweden and Finland , and I think also in Norway , as a binding agent in gluten-free bread and pastries .
Ethylhydroxyethylcellulose is particularly suitable for the kind of bread traditionally made in the northern region of the EU . The substance is , therefore , not completely exchangeable for other , already approved types of cellulose .
The rapporteur claims that there is a risk of contaminants in ethylhydroxyethylcellulose that could have a carcinogenic effect and also suggests that high doses could have a laxative effect .
However , I maintain that in reality the opposite may be true .
The fact that the bread sticks together and does not have to be eaten with a spoon because it has broken into a mass of crumbs is particularly important for children with gluten intolerance .
These children have difficulty understanding why they should have to eat breadcrumbs when other children eat whole bread that does not crumble into pieces .
If children are careless about their diet , there is an increased risk of malnutrition .
If children with gluten intolerance abandon the breadcrumbs and eat normal bread , they will suffer from stomach pain and they can then develop diarrhoea .
In the long term , there is probably also an increased risk of contracting cancer of the stomach or intestine .
For many families with gluten intolerant children , life is very difficult and the extra work involved in managing their diet is tremendous .
These families cannot buy their bread , but have to make it themselves and add the binding agent themselves .
Why should we make life even more difficult for these families ?
Why should they not be allowed to continue to use the binding agent that they are used to using ?
Not approving ethylhydroxyethylcellulose makes life more difficult for people with gluten intolerance and for families with gluten intolerant children .
In this case it is not possible to invoke the precautionary principle in order to ban the substance . On the contrary , the precautionary principle favours the approval of ethylhydroxyethylcellulose .
Mr President , like everyone else in this debate I should like to congratulate Mr Lannoye .
He and I sometimes cross swords on the issue of other nutritious additives , but in this case we are looking very much at the essence of the burden of proof before this list is yet further extended .
He has done a service to the committee and also to this House by pointing out that this procedure appears to be almost always one-way .
I am prepared to accept that some of these are harmless .
Indeed , the committee and even Mr Lannoye were prepared to accept E949 and E650 .
These are apparently needed by manufacturers because they produce an equal spray of fat on the utensil concerned .
One of them is there only for professional use . The other two are regarded as safe for all .
It does not seem to us to be the right place for it .
We would prefer to strike out recital 5 and we shall so vote .
This is the place to discuss the burden of proof rather than the overall principle of precaution .
Finally , as regards Amendment No 2 in the name of my Group , this is purely a drafting amendment to remove references to the codecision procedure .
But its meaning remains crystal clear .
It is being done in the consumer 's name . For that reason we commend Amendment No 2 .
In this respect , the Lannoye report provides one more classic example .
The rapporteur rightly wonders if the additives added to our foodstuffs are really necessary and , more especially , if they are really harmless .
What are we discussing here ?
The total of 307 additives authorised by the European Union , only 163 of which are completely harmless , as Paul Lannoye has just pointed out .
Who stands to gain from the inclusion of additives , of chemicals , in our meals ?
Certainly not the consumers , who are now increasingly looking to find 100 % healthy food for themselves and for their children .
In this respect , without going into the technical details , I should like to go back over the three criteria highlighted in the report .
On the one hand , do the additives meet a technological need ?
The least that can be said is that consumer interests are not always in line with the interests of manufacturing firms .
On the other hand , are the additives useful to the consumer ?
The question answers itself .
Finally , is it certain that the additive is harmless ?
That is the prime consideration .
The Commission considers that Directive 95 / 2 needs to be adapted in the light of recent technical and scientific developments .
Our proposal is based on three main principles . Approved additives are safe and present no risk to public health .
Safety issues are evaluated by the Scientific Committee for Food .
Food additives are only permitted if it is demonstrated that there is a technological need for them and consumers are not misled and will benefit from having a choice of new products with better quality .
Several of the additives now proposed for use have been temporarily authorised by some Member States .
Provided that the opinions of the Scientific Committee are respected , technological need is demonstrated and consumers are not misled , Community legislation should recognise the experience of the Member States in the use of these additives .
For these reasons the Commission is not in a position to accept Amendments Nos 3 , 4 and 5 .
The amendments proposed do not sufficiently take into account the opinions of the Scientific Committee for Food and the technological need that exists in some Member States .
If these amendments were adopted , some perfectly safe foodstuffs would disappear from the shelves of food stores in certain Member States .
As to the first amendment , the application of the precautionary principle is not appropriate as has been mentioned by a number of speakers this evening .
The safety of the food additives we are discussing has been evaluated by the Scientific Committee for Food .
This is the basis on which the Community legislators have approved the use of additives in the past and it is the basis on which the Commission now proposes the authorisation of new food additives .
Therefore , the Commission is not in favour of the first amendment .
The Commission does not believe that Amendments Nos 2 and 6 are necessary or appropriate in respect of this directive .
It is Mr Whitehead 's amendment in relation to No 2 that has given me the opportunity to consider this particular aspect and whether there is a need for raising the standard in this area in a particular manner .
I have come to the conclusion that he is correct and that some effort should be made to deal with this .
But I think that it is probably best to do so in the framework directive rather than in this particular directive .
That would have more universal application and would achieve the ends that all of us want to achieve for consumers .
So when we come to the point of amending that particular directive , i.e. 89 / 107 , I will be giving serious consideration to that suggestion and to that amendment put forward by Mr Whitehead .
There are a number of individual points that have been mentioned that I would like to draw attention to and see if I can respond to the questions raised .
That is not strictly speaking a correct analysis of the purpose of this particular additive .
The carrots are pre-packed , so they are labelled and therefore the consumer knows that an additive is being used .
The purpose of the additive is as a firming agent rather than making the food look , or suggesting that it is , in fact fresher than it is .
Therefore , in those circumstances , it is justifiable .
Mr Lannoye mentioned the application of the precautionary principle .
I have dealt with that very briefly but let me just say , I respectfully agree with a number of the contributors this evening on the proper place for the precautionary principle .
But in this particular case , the Scientific Committee has examined the situation , it has given its opinion that these additives are safe .
I agree with another contributor earlier , that I have some anxieties about putting forward our views in place of the scientific opinions expressed by scientists .
I would have strong reserves about approaching a particular problem in that way and therefore we should give full regard to the opinions of Scientific Committees .
Our decisions ought to be science-based .
To supplant the opinions of scientists with our own opinions is a dangerous precedent in my view and certainly this is not the appropriate place for the precautionary principle .
I was also asked why does the Commission propose the use of the additive E467 that is alleged to contain dangerous impurities such as ethylene oxide .
I should say that the impurity of ethylene oxide did not prevent the Scientific Committee from concluding that this cellulose is safe for use .
Limits for impurities will be set in the specifications that are drawn up as a Commission directive after the additive is permitted for use .
I was also asked why the Commission does not propose the deletion of food additives instead of always adding new ones to the positive list .
When the Commission has the information that an additive is no longer used , it proposes the withdrawal of the substance from the positive list .
For instance , in the next revision of this directive , the Commission services will propose the deletion of calcium hydrogen carbonate and magnesium carbonate .
Mrs Thyssen made reference to the fact that there was insufficient information in the Commission document , and I take account of that .
There is something to be said for what you say in relation to this .
I propose to take steps when further Commission proposals are made in this regard .
Perhaps some greater clarity might be contained in the document , giving a broader justification for such inclusion from a consumer benefit point of view .
Perhaps some more technical information might justifiably be included also .
Mr Lund suggested that the colouring agents are added to unprocessed food .
That is a factually incorrect statement .
No colouring agents are added to unprocessed food at all .
He also asked if some consideration should not be given to the consumer survey that took place in December on nitrates .
I have been informed that this is under active consideration and discussions are taking place with Member States in relation to that particular survey .
Mr Whitehead asked me if we should give some consideration to a more effective way of removing additives .
Not only Mr Whitehead but also some other speakers made reference to this .
Obviously there is some concern that there is not enough information about this .
I will certainly make further inquiries so as to be in a position to give further information to Members in due course .
I promise , Mr President , to be extremely brief .
Firstly , I have an initial comment to make on the Scientific Committees .
It is not sufficient , Commissioner , simply to read the conclusions of the Scientific Committees . You must read the report , as I have done .
Occasionally , reading the reports gives rise to more doubts than certainties .
I would ask you , therefore , to be a little more circumspect before rejecting all the amendments out of hand , since I can also claim to have made a scientific study of the situation .
I have gathered a number of opinions , I have read the texts , and I can tell you that you are going too far in sweeping aside the amendments we are proposing .
Next , there is one other aspect which has not been taken into account , to wit , the potential interaction between the many additives found in food .
They have never been studied together , they are studied in isolation ; and that is an aspect that you must take into consideration .
That concludes the debate .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon .
( The sitting closed at 9.20 p.m. )
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of yesterday ' s sitting have been distributed .
Are there any comments ?
I rise , therefore , to question whether Rule 139 ( 1 ) of our Rules of Procedure is being applied correctly .
As you know , we spend an enormous amount of time voting on Tuesday , Wednesday and Thursday lunchtimes .
We adopted a set of changes to the Rules of Procedure last year to try to rationalise our work .
In these changes we gave every Member the right to table an amendment as an individual at committee stage , but we limited the right to table amendments in plenary to 32 Members or a political group .
I notice , for instance , that the EPP Group has over 100 amendments in its name but signed by 18 different Members , none of them the coordinator or leader of the group .
Over 20 of these amendments are contradictory , so they cannot possibly all be the position of the EPP Group .
Some are identical , tabled by different Members ; and there is even a case of two identical amendments being tabled by the same Member .
Could the EPP Group please get its act together !
So much time is spent and wasted on voting as it is and this is a way to get around the rationalisation of the Rules of Procedure we adopted as a Parliament last year .
I would ask the sessional services to verify in future that such amendments really are in the name of a group .
( Applause from the left )
Mr President , I should just like to let Mr Corbett know that within the EPP Group an amendment cannot be put before Parliament unless it has been voted in the Group and has the support of the Group .
He should be quite clear about that procedure within our Group .
Secondly , as he is aware , there is a process going on at the moment for reforming Parliament .
If he has any suggestions to put to the Bureau about the voting procedures , that would be the correct way to go about it .
Mr Corbett , I will pass on your comments to the President , and the Bureau will look into all our working procedures in May .
Mr President , I was present yesterday and I signed the register but my name does not appear in the Minutes .
I should like that to be corrected .
It shall be done , Mrs McNally .
In practice , this means that the existing text will be replaced by a new joint compromise proposal , which will , in effect , lead to a delay in the proceedings and a reconsideration in June .
Mr President , I have a request ; every member has a very precise timetable .
We agree on a great number of deadlines in the citizens ' interest .
Today , yet again , the sitting has been brought forward , this time to 8.30 a.m.
I think it would be conducive to greater overall efficiency if we stuck to a basic programme and stopped changing arrangements at short notice .
Thank you for your understanding .
Mr Rbig , look upon it as an exceptional decision taken in response to specific requests from the Portuguese Presidency .
( The Minutes were approved )
Mr President , on a point of order .
It concerns a reference made yesterday by the President on the change of business which is taking place this week .
I am very concerned indeed about the reference that the President made as to who would be present from the Council when the President of Austria attends this Parliament tomorrow .
There was , and still is , concern among a lot of people that the change of business means that the Council will be absent on that important occasion .
I should like to have some assurances that the Council will be represented at a sufficiently senior level to offer the respect which this Parliament traditionally offers when these sorts of visits occur .
( Applause from the right )
I will pass on your comments to the President , Mr Kirkhope .
Vote on request for urgent procedure
. Mr President , whilst the Council has made this request and we are quite happy to do what we can to ensure that things are speeded up , there is no need to vote on this urgency today .
It is planned for our agenda in May .
We can leave this until next month .
( Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure )
1998 discharge , budgetary control
The Commission must be measured against this claim and its self-evident obligation , as guardian of the Treaties vis--vis third parties , to guarantee that their application begins at home .
These measures relate mainly to four areas which still require clarification or the oft-quoted fresh start .
Firstly , the error rate of over five per cent calculated by the Court of Auditors over several years must be cut considerably by 2001 and a positive declaration of assurance must be achieved by 2003 .
Secondly , the particularly blatant cases of fraud and irregularity in connection with the Flchard case , ECHO , MED and contracts awarded to visiting scientists must be fully clarified and dealt with in disciplinary terms .
Thirdly , Parliament must be given unrestricted access to information and documents for its control activities , as called for in the 1997 discharge resolution .
Fourthly : reports must be filed on the relevant disciplinary hearings and fundamental reforms implemented .
The Committee did not pass this resolution lightly and finally adopted the proposal submitted by a large majority of 19 votes to 1 .
The Commission should agree to it if it wishes to retain its credibility in its handling of the taxes paid by European citizens and its democratic dealings with the elected representatives of the people of Europe .
Parliament takes the control function assigned to it in the European Treaties seriously .
All the cases of fraud and irregularity addressed in the resolution relate directly to the 1998 financial year , even though some originated much earlier .
All the measures called for must be carried out by the deadline set .
All the cases are awaiting a decision .
Clearly , the new Commission cannot be held directly responsible for the cases I have referred to , even if not all the members of the Commission are new .
But it is responsible for dealing with this legacy and it will only distinguish itself positively from its predecessors if it takes a ruthless approach and clears up every last one of these cases .
The Commission should also take a close look at how it treats officials who deserve the highest respect for their courageous sense of civic duty in dealing with irregularities .
Despite countless lofty announcements , there is as yet no real evidence of a fresh start .
Commissioner ' s Kinnock ' s reform paper , which is broad in scope if nothing else , sets off every single alarm bell in the area of financial control .
Decentralisation must not result in the total de facto abolition of internal financial control .
On the contrary , care must be taken to ensure that reforms concentrate on basics and that the principle of quality before quantity still applies .
My conclusion is this : " Words enough have been exchanged , let me at last see some action .
While you fashion compliments , something useful may happen . "
You see , good old Goethe had the right words even in this situation .
The motion should also send out nothing more and nothing less than a clear signal of Parliament ' s support to the President of the Commission , who unfortunately is not with us here today .
I should like to call on the President to grab this chance and to make use , where necessary , of the powers to issue directives granted to him .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , we have a number of difficult decisions to take this week .
Controlling the Executive is one of Parliament ' s main rights and that right centres on budgetary control .
Our yardstick must therefore be the central issue of what the new Commission ' s attitude is towards responsibility .
A good example of this , in my view , is the discharge for the Development Funds .
Our Committee had confidential information on mismanagement and irregularities which amounted to suspicion of corruption .
In response to our questions , we received only inadequate information , for which we had to wait a long time .
The majority of the Committee therefore decided to suspend discharge in order to obtain more information .
In the meantime , however , we have good news to impart .
Together with representatives from the Commission and the parliamentary Committee on Development we have drawn up an action plan , which can be implemented by 15 May .
I think that this development clearly demonstrates the direction that we need to take .
The Commission and Parliament must work together and must create greater transparency in relation to the budget and its implementation .
Unfortunately , I was forced to include another postponement in my report , this time in relation to the Economic and Social Committee .
There are again problems with the Economic and Social Committee in relation to travel costs and mission expenses .
It took the Committee over 15 months to refer justified cases of suspicion of fraud to OLAF .
Discharge therefore had to be suspended pending the results of the OLAF investigation .
There is another problem with the Economic and Social Committee , the problem of buildings .
We are still paying rent for the Ardenne and Ravenstein buildings .
We are also paying rent for the Belliard building and Parliament must pay for its new building . This means that European taxpayers are currently paying rent for three buildings .
We want to exert pressure here to ensure that the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions move into the Belliard building as quickly as possible .
However , I should just like to say on the subject of buildings that better management is needed at European level .
There are similar problems with the European Court of Justice .
The Court of Auditors has drafted a special report on this subject , which will be reflected in the 1999 discharge procedure .
As a new Member , allow me to point out that there are serious shortcomings in this area .
As I have little time left , I should like to give a very succinct and concentrated presentation of the rest of my report .
We are able to propose that the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Auditors be granted discharge .
Both institutions gave highly satisfactory answers to the criticisms in my report and we have had prompt and comprehensive replies to our questions and comments .
We are also able to propose that the Dublin agency and the Thessaloniki agency be granted discharge .
However , we would like to see the contradictory procedure shortened for the agencies .
We welcome the fact that the agencies have decided to carry out an evaluation and we expect this evaluation to be submitted by December 2000 .
I should like to report quite unequivocally that neither applies .
There has been no whitewash .
In addition , contrary to the Commission discharge procedure , we have no cause to complain that we did not receive certain documents .
Some were perhaps a little late in arriving , but they did all arrive .
That is another difference in the discharge procedures .
We here in Parliament certainly have cases of mismanagement in certain areas which need to be criticised and cleared up , but we have no legacy such as cases of fraud .
I am all in favour of the same yardstick , but the same yardstick does not necessarily give the same results .
If we did that , there would not be a single Commission over the next 20 years which needed to fear Parliament ' s discharge or , at most , its merciless opportunism !
I should like to come now to the question of where the shortcomings which we must clear up lie .
We must , for example , reverse the trend whereby the number of direct contracts has increased dramatically in comparison with the number of open competitions .
This refers mainly to the fixtures and fittings in this building .
It is not a procedure which is illegal per se and it would be wrong to assume that it were .
However , we must insist that this trend be reversed in order to reinstate a sound administrative culture .
This direct contract procedure must not catch on and become the predominant procedure .
In the long term , it would mean accepting cost increases on orders without being able to check if they could be obtained more cheaply elsewhere , which is why this trend must be reversed .
The second point is this : Parliament has lost several cases on personnel issues before the European Court of Justice over recent years and the verdict of the European Court of Justice has been harsh and clear .
It has been clearly stated that our own , previously public , competition criteria have been broken for certain positions in order to lever certain persons into those positions .
Another important point addressed relates to the question of buildings .
We have already discussed them at length .
We have received every document written on the subject .
The inventory has been addressed .
Mr Seppnen addressed it yesterday .
The report itself lists the difficulties which have arisen , the huge number of items which have disappeared or , to put it bluntly , been stolen .
In the meantime , thank God , we have introduced an electronic inventory system in Parliament .
We are now waiting for an explanation as to how this electronic system functions .
I should like to come back to the question of yardsticks and results .
I hope I do not have to sit in such a Parliament .
Mr President , the discharge which we are discussing today , as far as agriculture is concerned , pertains to 1993 , 1994 and 1995 and you may well wonder why we are so late .
The reason for this is that we delayed the discharge for 1992 for a long time , because we had made certain requirements of the Commission which up to last year it had failed to meet .
We are pleased to note that this has meanwhile been rectified .
So what exactly were Parliament ' s requirements ?
This has since been done and we are grateful for this .
It still causes Parliament some concern that the jobs have not yet been filled and that it is extremely difficult to do so .
In general terms , the error rate for agriculture is below the general error rate for the budget . Where the general rate is 5 % , as already mentioned , that for agriculture is 3 % .
This is moving in the right direction . This may also partly be due to the fact that agricultural policy has changed over the years .
I believe it is easier to keep income policy in check than it is price policy .
There has since been an increase in expenditure for development within rural areas but I will come back to this .
Special attention should also be paid to the European revenue .
Although the own resources are falling , they are still an important source of income and it has now been decided that certain Member States are allowed to retain 25 % .
This is all the more reason why the Commission should keep tabs on all the money coming in to which the European Union is entitled .
What does the Committee on Budgets mainly want ?
First , the Commission should work towards driving back the current error rate within the short term .
In my opinion , we should be able to have a 1 % error rate within a number of years .
One way of achieving this is to establish an estimated reliability level for each sector .
This is something which the Commission could undertake itself . What is the error rate in the milk sector , the dairy sector , the cereal sector , etc ?
In this way , the various offices will benefit from a healthy rivalry .
Everyone wants to outstrip the others and agriculture would be able to take the wind out of the sails of the other budget components .
For many years , we have also talked about an integrated management and inspection system for agriculture and lamented the fact that many countries are still unable to meet this requirement .
I think it is about time this stopped .
We have stipulated in the resolution that the Commission will have two years to solve this and I have been given assurances that this should be possible .
Although the agricultural budget components are scrutinised , they cannot be scrutinised in the same way as guaranteed expenditure , which is down to the Guidance Section for agriculture .
We think the Commission should come up with proposals to actually apply the financial corrections system to structural expenditure for agriculture .
In common with the Court of Auditors , the Commission is also concerned that huge mistakes are still being made in the export refunds system .
The Committee on Budgets , therefore , recommends discharge .
There are , however , a few problems remaining , one of which I have already mentioned , namely export refunds .
We are expecting a report on this .
We are also waiting for a report from OLAF on fraud involving the aid provided to flax in certain countries , notably Spain .
Finally , and I may come back to this at a later stage , we are waiting for a report from the Court of Auditors on the Flchard affair .
We can grant discharge to the Commission without these three elements .
There is something else .
Since 1995 , there has been a conciliation committee for agricultural expenditure .
If there is a difference of opinion between the Member States and the Commission on the financial correction to be imposed , we can call upon a conciliation body to mediate .
We have as yet to be convinced of the usefulness of this conciliation body .
The Commission has promised to assess this . We look forward to the findings because we would like to considerably reduce the number of court cases at the Court of Justice in Luxembourg .
Mr President , my report is about the European Coal and Steel Community and how that fits in with Mrs Stauner 's report and the discharge .
We have decided to give the discharge on three conditions , and the conditions are clearly spelt out .
We hope that by 15 August those concerned will give us the information that is requested .
It is being wound up and it is remarkable that such an instrument should continue with that budget and 145 staff .
I believe such an instrument should be wound up as quickly as possible so that it is incorporated in perhaps a reformed European Investment Bank : a European Investment Bank that is transparent and accountable .
Such investments can and should be made by professional banks rather than the little outfit that we have at the moment .
The number of people employed for the amount of money being invested is again quite disproportionate .
I am hoping that this can be wound up speedily and incorporated in either the EIB or the European Investment Fund , because that would be a better way of using the money and resources .
This is for the social and research fund , but again these objectives could be better addressed by a bank that would ask other banks to manage investments so that we have the highest return .
I hope that the three conditions , the conditional discharge and the obligations on those concerned to address these conditions will be taken seriously .
Far too often in the past we have found that promises have been made and not kept .
So I hope that the answers will be given to Parliament and to the Committee on Budgetary Control .
I think that is about all I need to say .
On that basis I recommend to this House a discharge .
I have , what is more , received no complaints from any officials at all .
I am not aware of any vengeful articles by investigative journalists , or any OLAF inquiries , and personally I have not managed to discover any proven cases of mismanagement , fraud or misappropriation of funds in our sector .
In a word , as far as our committee ' s area of competence is concerned , there is nothing to prevent the discharge being granted to the Commission .
The citizens ' primary right is to see that their money is managed and spent properly and as long is this is not clearly established discharge must not be granted .
I should , however , like to make two observations .
Settling political scores or making personal attacks must not be mistaken for combating poor management , irregularities and fraud .
In this context , it is essential to prevent a climate of political vendetta arising between the main institutions of the Union .
My personal preference would be for adopting a more self-critical attitude .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , expenditure for research accounts for nearly two thirds of the budget for internal policy .
The Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy regrets the inaccuracies in one third of payments .
The European Commission has paid over the odds most of the time because the beneficiaries had failed to declare non-eligible costs .
Inadequate inspection by the offices of the Commission and the lack of contractually determined penalties for excessive declarations have also led to deliberate over-invoicing in nearly two-thirds of the payments .
What does the Commissioner intend to do about this ?
Has the Commission ever taken legal action ?
Or does it intend to ?
I would like to have these questions answered .
The success and usefulness of the research programmes are beyond dispute .
But effective implementation requires better management and coordination , as well as inspections carried out by various Directorates-General .
If money from Brussels is spent , then the responsibility should lie with Brussels and not with external service providers .
We are prepared to grant discharge under these conditions .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen .
Alas , I sit here between a rock and a hard place .
It is not enough for the present Commission to acknowledge the errors of the old Commission without finding a solution .
However , this is not the place for such personal experiences .
Allow me rather to highlight the causes for criticism as the representative and draftsman of the RETT Committee .
Firstly , certain measures dating back to before 1989 have still not been completed .
Secondly , the irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors refer mainly to errors in relation to proof of expenditure which are signed by Member States , and for which they are responsible .
The Commission is indirectly and to some extent jointly responsible here insofar as it should have issued clear rules for grants and aid .
The conditional postponement of the discharge suggested by Mrs Stauner is to be welcomed .
I personally would like to have better facilities for quality control , in situ , of how EU funds are used .
To our great delight , we are also at the dawn of a drastic reform of development policy .
It has also been agreed that in these sectors , clear objectives will be formulated and that , in these objectives , basic health care and primary education will be considerably reinforced as components of social development .
This is not just restricted to either the European Parliament budget or the EDF budget , but refers to the total .
After all , we are talking about a huge amount which the European tax payer expects to be used to combat poverty .
In terms of inspection , this is all undoubtedly neatly justified in accounts , but is incorrect in terms of content .
This poverty focus is essential in order to actually get value for money .
In the light of this , there is a great need for reform on this score .
We at the Committee on Development and Cooperation have every confidence that we can bring about this reform thanks to the agreements we have reached with the Commission .
Further to the agreement we concluded with the Committee on Budgetary Control , I also expect that the action plan on 15 May will help us at the Parliament to turn a corner , in tandem with the Commission .
I would like to underline the confidence we have in the Commission and all its Commissioners .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , today , for the second time this year , we are debating the discharge of the Commission for the budget of a previous financial year .
Today we are debating the discharge for the 1998 financial year .
Under the European Treaty , Parliament has a duty to audit the accounts , the statements of assets and the annual report of the Court of Auditors , together with the replies from the bodies being audited .
In its report on the 1998 financial year , submitted in November last year , the Court of Auditors granted the Commission a declaration of assurance with regard to receipts and the handling of commitment appropriations .
The Court of Auditors did not grant the Commission an auditor ' s certificate establishing that payments had been implemented in a lawful and proper manner .
The error rate was considered to be too high by the Court of Auditors .
As the Commissioner for the Budget , I subscribe fully to the opinion that , in some areas , the shortcomings in the implementation of the budget are simply unacceptable .
Nearly 90 % of all errors identified or highlighted by the Court of Auditors concern the Member States .
The majority of payments out of the EU budget are paid not directly by the Brussels administration , but by administrative units in the Member States .
This decentralised implementation of the budget has numerous advantages , but , of course , it also calls for efficient and close cooperation .
As rapporteur for the SEM 2000 programmes and decentralised management measures , Mr Kuhne has dealt with these questions in detail and I should like to thank him for his work in this area .
The fact that the error rate for agricultural expenditure is well below the error rate for the Structural Funds is perhaps due to this financial correction instrument .
My colleague Franz Fischler will go into this in greater detail in a moment but I should like at this point to thank Mr Casaca for his report and to congratulate Mr Mulder on his report .
The Court of Auditors made no critical remarks on the budget for the European Coal and Steel Community and I should like to thank the rapporteur , Mr Khanbhai , for the report which he has just presented .
The European Court of Auditors also issued a declaration of assurance for the budget of the European Development Fund , although it did find cause for complaint .
Overall , there was a clear drop in the error rate for the Funds in comparison with previous years .
However , this gives the Commission no cause whatsoever for complacency .
On the contrary , the Commission also wants to achieve more satisfactory results for this financing instrument , which is so important to development policy , and this applies in particular to the question of the speed of aid .
You addressed this point , Mr van den Berg .
The legislative , budgetary and control powers of the individual institutions overlap even more in the European Union than they do in the Member States .
It is therefore essential that we act in unity if European policy is to work .
The chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control , Mrs Theato , also has a very responsible role in this respect .
It is in all our interests for these negotiations to come to a swift conclusion , hopefully with results which enable there to be a good policy and collaboration on such important matters as discharge .
The Commission has made a commitment to transparency and openness .
The Commission has nothing to hide and this Commission sees it as its duty to support Parliament fully in the performance of its duties .
But we need a procedure which safeguards the confidentiality of information and , more importantly , the principle of the rule of law whereby people cannot be pre-judged .
That must also apply to the Commission staff , just as it applies to people who belong to the other European institutions and to all our citizens .
The Commission is called on in the report adopted by the Committee on Budgetary Control to answer various questions or take direct action by 15 May .
I should like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Control for this resolution and also for the deadline attached to it .
Some of the points refer to dealing with so-called old cases , i.e. cases of irregularities or suspicion of fraud from previous years .
This Commission has no fear of any findings .
It also means that proportionality is required when meting out punishment and demanding refunds and this applies both to demands by the Commission and to refunds demanded by the Member States .
The European Court of Justice again made that clear in its most recent judgement a few weeks ago , when it halved or even cancelled fines in the case of the cement cartel .
My colleague Franz Fischler will shortly be going into the question of the agricultural budget in connection with discharge in greater detail .
Naturally , decisions must be taken where there is room for discretion and they must be taken according to clear rules and in a transparent manner .
I shall fight for clear rules within the framework of the financial regulation .
I am not in a position at this point to go into the individual points of the resolution in detail .
However , the Commission will immediately notify OLAF of your demands and , as far as the administrative investigation is concerned , I have set the procedure of clarification in motion .
Your resolution insists first and foremost on a reduction in the error rate .
This is why the European Anti-Fraud Office is being reinforced .
The Commission will do everything to ensure that the reform is a success and it would be a good thing if all the European institutions were to expose themselves to such reform .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I should like to restrict my comments to the so-called Mulder and Casaca reports .
The main thrust of the report is that clearance of accounts for the expenditure financed by the Guarantee Section of the EAGGF was a job well done .
This can also be seen from the financial corrections quoted under number 1 .
I consider this to represent a certain degree of acknowledgement and , at the same time , to be an order to do even more in the future .
I expressly state that I agree with number 4 .
The date of April 2002 is needed in order at last to guarantee the proper operation of the integrated administration and control system in all the Member States .
It is also a prerequisite to our being able to reduce the error rate still further .
As regards the question of building up a central database containing data on all payments to final beneficiaries , I should like to draw your attention to the following .
The interaction between the common agricultural policy and the final beneficiaries currently passes via approved paying agencies in the Member States .
These agencies have all the data on the final beneficiaries and the Commission services naturally have unrestricted access to them .
However , I should like to stress that the Commission does not need a central database per se in order to exercise its control function and I would therefore suggest that a cost-benefit analysis should be considered here .
A study is currently examining if it is technically feasible to set up a central database for recording all payments and hence all final beneficiaries .
Even if it is not prescribed under law , it could of course simplify a number of operations , not only for the Commission , but also for the Court of Auditors or OLAF .
The Commission is aware of the fact that the European Parliament considers it important to know the names of the recipients of the largest sums .
However , I should point out here that , because of data protection at Union and Member State level , it would be impossible to publish such information , even if it were technically feasible .
As far as staffing the clearance of accounts unit is concerned , I can confirm , Mr Mulder , that only the three posts of the new unit leaders have yet to be published .
The recruitment procedure for the remaining six posts has already been completed , or will be shortly .
The Conciliation Body referred to in number 16 of the report is one of the measures which should ensure that efforts to speed up the procedure do not compromise the quality of document audits .
However , this is only a consultation process and it is the Commission itself which takes the decision in all cases .
I can also assure you that refunds and the aid regime for flax and hemp will be examined very conscientiously .
Corrections totalling EUR 249.8 million were made to refunds for the financial years from 1994 to 1998 .
However , before we can make any further corrections for subsequent financial years , we must first carry out the scheduled control visits .
Allow me to conclude with a few comments on the declaration of assurance .
It is proposed in the resolution that there should be a separate declaration of assurance for the EAGGF and the individual sectors .
This question is , of course , addressed first and foremost to the Court of Auditors .
The Commission notes this proposal with interest .
And finally , my thanks in this respect to the Committee on Budgetary Control for their excellent cooperation in drafting the report .
A few words now on Mr Casaca ' s report .
I should also like to thank you , Mr Casaca , for your report .
The purpose of the proposed amendment tabled here is to improve controls .
I should like to make the following comments on the proposed amendments .
The Commission cannot , unfortunately , accept proposed Amendment No 1 insofar as the rapporteur proposes changing the legal basis for the regulation from Article 37 to Article 280 .
The Commission takes the view that Article 37 of the Treaty is the correct legal basis because the most important objective of the proposal is to prevent irregularities in EAGGF Guarantee Section expenditure .
On the contrary , what is needed is a thorough examination on the basis of pertinent sources of information and a conscientious appraisal of the results .
And that is what we have done in the Committee on Budgetary Control over recent weeks .
We are working on that .
Mrs Schreyer also mentioned it .
However , I am warning you that the Commission is heading straight for the same fate as its predecessor .
According to Article 276 of the Treaty , Parliament , and hence the Committee appointed by it , is entitled to any information or documents which it needs or demands in order to prepare its discharge .
This includes reappraising old cases .
The rapporteur quotes four cases by way of example .
Other cases should be on the list , but the Commission has unfortunately not yet passed them on , despite the date of March 2000 set in the 1997 discharge .
Here too the Commission misunderstands our basic cause for concern .
The rapporteur and the Committee on Budgetary Control are not holding the present Commission per se responsible for the deplorable state of affairs in previous years .
The resignation of the previous Commission did not put an end to it .
On the contrary , the new Commission was completely aware of all the outstanding accusations before it entered office and it undertook to assume responsibility and establish transparency .
I take this to mean that it must clear up all the old cases without exception and - where necessary - must pass them to the courts .
Cover-ups or even sweeping issues under the carpet are not the answer .
On the contrary , the answer means being prepared to draw conclusions from the unhappy events of the past , so that the same thing does not happen again in the future .
This ranges from precise filing rules , so that documents cannot simply disappear , to a fundamental reform of disciplinary proceedings and much else besides .
This approach also informs the White Paper on the reform of the Commission tabled by Mr Kinnock .
Mrs Stauner ' s report lists our short-term demands with respect to these conclusions and we all consider that they can be met by the stated deadline .
The Committee debated them at several meetings and finally adopted them with one vote against .
Here we must thank the rapporteur for her honesty , on the one hand , and for her perfect readiness to compromise , on the other .
One of the most important objectives that we consider the Commission should achieve is to reduce the error rate in payments to well below the persistent figure of 5 % .
I know , Mrs Schreyer , that you have tabled an action plan .
Nonetheless , the error rate has remained at the same high level for the last five years .
We shall have to debate this .
However , we also know that most errors occur in the Member States and we are prepared , as a committee , to discuss this with you .
Nonetheless , we take the view and the Treaty states that the Commission is responsible for implementing the overall budget .
Excuses and promises are no use .
We need clear proof of improvement .
On balance , my conclusion is that we need a strong Commission , which is able to act , which works openly together with Parliament and which supplies Parliament with all the information needed or requested .
I think that the President of the Commission , Mr Prodi , should direct his team forcefully here in order to take transparency in Europe a stage further .
Mr President , the Committee on Budgetary Control has considered several reports recently , mostly relating to the 1998 discharge procedure .
It is a strange time for us to be considering how the Commission is faring after its forced resignation last year due to many of the issues highlighted in the 1996 discharge .
The discharge procedure is , of course , an opportunity for the European Parliament to exercise its responsibility in terms of monitoring the Commission and the other institutions ' behaviour .
We check their accounts . We ensure that policies have been well managed .
The report as it stands at the moment is very different from the initial report that was submitted by Mrs Stauner on behalf of the EPP Group . That was clearly used as a political battering ram .
Mrs Stauner quoted Goethe .
I will quote Shakespeare .
The report was full of sound and fury signifying nothing .
That is why the explanatory statement attached to this report has not been agreed by the Budgetary Control Committee .
It makes no sense in the context of the postponement report , and it is totally nonsensical and hysterical in tone .
We are delighted that there was an almost unanimous consensus , however , on the new practical approach to the general discharge .
We would like to thank the rapporteur for her cooperation on that .
We expect and hope that the Commission will deliver and the rapporteur will perhaps take a more considered approach in her final report .
But one thing which has become manifestly clear to me during this process is that we need an overhaul of the discharge procedure to avoid this kind of confrontation again .
This discharge procedure should be an opportunity to study systems failures within the Commission .
In an ideal world , it should be based on the Court of Auditors ' Report , but that does mean that both the Budgetary Control Committee and the Court of Auditors must develop a much closer relationship .
There is a massive amount of expertise in the Court of Auditors , expertise that Parliament should draw on in order to reach its own political conclusions .
In postponing the discharge , we have set out clear points that we expect the Commission to act upon .
Never again will we accept the situation where we cannot get to the bottom of a case , because documents have gone missing .
Clear lines of responsibility must be established so that if problems occur , disciplinary action will follow .
Never again will we accept a situation where misconduct or a bad administrator will be judged by his or her peers .
We expect an external element to be included , as advised by the Committee of Independent Experts .
These are just two examples of how the Commission can improve its act in the short term without waiting to implement all the recommendations of the White Paper .
There is a question to answer as to whether the current Commission should or can take responsibility for the mistakes and problems of the past Commission .
Let us not forget that here we are considering the discharge for 1998 .
If we took this to its logical conclusion , it would mean that Parliament could only judge a sitting Commission during three years of its tenure .
That is why it is clear that we must address systems failures rather than attack individuals or individual Commissioners who may no longer be involved .
We do not want witch-hunts .
We want answers as to how best we spend European taxpayers ' money .
I would like to turn very briefly to the other reports that we have considered in committee , and first of all to the Kuhne report on the European Parliament .
Mr Kuhne has done an excellent job as rapporteur for the Parliament discharge .
There is no doubt that there have been vast improvements in Parliament 's performance .
Our financial control system does not have the quantity of payments that the Commission has and therefore things are more manageable .
We have had everlasting problems , of course , with the buildings , often through no fault of our own but because decisions have been imposed on us by the Council .
If the Council had any concern about budget control , we certainly would not be sitting in this building right now .
There has been a great deal of talk about a report on political group expenditure .
The fact is that our committee has not seen this report .
It has still not been published officially , and therefore it is difficult for us to comment on it .
But transparency is a principle that we must hold dear in this context .
I am delighted that Mrs Rhle has done such a great job on the EDF report .
Mr Mulder has done a great job as well , displaying his usual wizardry with the EAGGF accounts .
We support Mr Casaca in his approach , although we did not expect the Commission to support us on that of course .
We certainly do not expect the Council to support our position on the Casaca Report .
We are voting for postponement on many accounts .
The important reports , of course , will come next .
We hope that we will be able to develop a better approach in the next part of this discharge procedure .
It is important that we find a new way of doing it .
Thank you , Mr President , for all your kind support over the years for the Budgetary Control Committee .
It is always greatly appreciated .
All I can say at the beginning of this first debate is that the Commission would do well to go through the resolutions with a fine tooth comb , because this time Parliament is serious .
As far as the Stauner report is concerned , the liberal group is able to support the compromise resolution .
We are in favour of the Commission publishing an extensive report before 15 May which covers all the points we have raised .
In common with Mrs Theato , we hope that everything will be signed , sealed and delivered before the summer .
I should add that we , as a group , have less appreciation for the explanatory note which the rapporteur has added to her own resolution .
This was already mentioned last night .
In our opinion , an explanation should reflect the resolution itself and should not include any new elements .
I would like to make a brief comment on the report by Mr Kuhne . We too have a great deal of appreciation and admiration for the way in which Mr Kuhne has drafted his report .
If we are to criticise the Commission , we should perhaps make sure that we have put our own house in order first .
It is difficult to scrutinise somebody else if we as Parliament do not ensure that we are completely beyond reproach ourselves .
I also think that Parliament ' s administration would do well to stick to the many dates and deadlines included in the Kuhne report .
I would now like to come back to the Stauner report and a number of points made in it .
The Court of Auditors will shortly be publishing a report on the so-called Flchard affair .
There have been many speculations in the press , in Parliament , and so forth .
We must not get ahead of ourselves .
A few things are already clear , however , irrespective of the fraud affair itself .
Firstly , how is it possible for documents intentionally to go missing from the four Directorates-General or directors dealing with these ?
The documents disappeared everywhere simultaneously .
The big question to the Commission is : what has it since done on this score ?
Secondly , we would like proportionality explained . Should large businesses pay larger fines than small businesses ?
Thirdly , where does the Commissioners ' responsibility lie ?
To what extent can officials decide some things for themselves ?
This is an extremely political issue .
The following general rule will need to apply to this Commission : the error rate is too high .
It is not enough to say that it should come down .
We need a plan of action : by such and such a year , the Commission should bring the error rate down to such and such a level .
Then Parliament would know where it stood . The Commission would then have a goal to work towards and we could market ourselves better to the general public .
This is what it is all about at the end of the day .
Europe ' s ideal needs to be preserved .
Mr President , Commissioners , I too should again like to confirm that postponement must not be construed as a refusal of discharge .
On the contrary , we had no party political axes to grind in our committee and we obtained a broadly-carried compromise across all groups with just one vote against .
We can see that the new Commission is making an effort , but the 1998 discharge is at issue here and we must take it very seriously .
We must restore the public ' s lost confidence in the European institutions .
We must re-establish confidence and that means that , as a committee , we must make a critical examination of the 1998 budget .
We want neither to play down nor sensationalise the problem . On the contrary , we need to exert constructive pressure and we see the decision as a chance , not a punishment .
Our yardstick was how responsibility and transparency were dealt with and requires an open approach to shortcomings and an open approach to mistakes .
We hope that the action plan will help the administration to achieve better management .
We also take the view that the same yardstick must then be applied to Parliament and in this we completely disagree with Mr Kuhne , although we welcome his critical report .
The questions of the award of contracts , buildings and staff are at issue .
We know all about the pressure of time up to the point of discharge .
The report by the financial controller , for example , was submitted relatively late .
Obviously it was not possible to submit this action plan in time for today ' s decision .
However , we call on Parliament for precisely this reason to vote for a postponement here , so that an action plan can be drawn up jointly by 15 May .
This too we see as an important chance for Parliament to restore confidence and make it clear that it takes its own administration and the shortcomings in its own administration seriously .
I must also highlight something else , since Mr Kuhne appeared to be hinting that a hush-up would be in the groups ' interest .
We need clear-cut criteria and clear-cut guidelines .
We must do away with grey areas at European level because , as we all know , grey areas can and will always be abused , which is why we want transparency and openness .
Transparency and openness mean - and this is my clear call - that we must apply the same yardstick to all the institutions .
Mr President , it says " BUDG 1998 discharge " on the notice board , but it should say CONT .
Perhaps this could be corrected because Budgets and Budgetary Control are always getting confused .
It is the question of control which is at issue here .
It would be difficult to confuse them , Mrs Theato , but , in any event , we will try to correct it on the screen .
They tell me that it has to be written with a limited number of digits .
We will try to find a formula which will make it clear that we are talking about the COCOBU .
Perhaps CCB would be useful since this is the formula used in other bodies .
Mr President , the European Union lacks moral authority .
That is particularly problematic in matters of finances .
Parliament could achieve it , and it does wish to , which is clear from the reports now under discussion , but it lacks credibility in this area .
To maintain its own self-respect Parliament must accept the rules and regulations for the Members forthwith .
Parliament must investigate the misappropriation of funds by its political groups .
Our group will not agree that the practice of party aid should be introduced at the taxpayer ' s expense to cover up such malpractice .
Parliament must investigate why it was so lax in its vigilance when it came to millions of euros ' worth of Parliament property disappearing .
I would remind you how difficult it was in Parliament to raise the issue of malpractice on the basis of the accounts of the Commission for 1996 .
I would remind you how the Social Democrats in particular defended Mr Santer ' s Commission , and how we were obliged to compile a list of Members ' names when passing a motion of censure .
Those parliamentary members that compiled the list were obviously right .
The 1998 accounts and data give weight to earlier conclusions : Mr Santer ' s Commission appears to have approved a framework of budgetary discipline in which it was possible for malpractice to exist .
To support them will be the fifty or so trade union officials employed by the EU , defending people who are guilty of malpractice . They are the home guard for the officials that have behaved dishonourably .
Most of the officials in the EU are diligent and decent people .
In this case there is a need for increased vigilance , and that is something Mr Santer ' s Commission was unable to achieve .
However , postponing the discharge is justified and is the correct course of action in this situation .
We want to give the Commission the opportunity to improve the way it does things and show that it is able to do the job it inherited from the previous Commission .
Postponement of the granting of discharge is in itself the result of a quite incredible situation .
We have still not obtained proofs of this in all areas .
We have heard excuses , often in a dismissive tone , from the Commission , as if it were the Commission which was to be giving us discharge , rather than the other way round .
We have seen an express reluctance to hold those officials to account who are responsible for the circumstances open to criticism . It is not that there are no rules .
Rather , it is a case of rules having been quite deliberately set aside in many areas .
As Mr Kuhne rightly pointed out , it is important that we should also direct criticism against Parliament ' s own economic administration .
I would especially point out the quite unacceptable buildings administration and the way in which the rules for using the competitive tendering procedures were circumvented .
The impression cannot be avoided of systematic nepotism of precisely the kind which the competitive tendering procedure should prevent .
We shall therefore vote against the discharge for Parliament ' s 1998 accounts .
If there are no dramatic improvements in the financial administration , European taxpayers will know how to react against this irresponsible misuse of their money .
The Commission must understand that they are not Europe ' s overlords but the servants of European citizens .
Mrs Theato should know that we value her desire to call a spade a spade .
In short , today we are quite rightly acting as the plaintiff , but we need to be very aware of the fact that , tomorrow , we will be in the dock ourselves .
European money is always spent with less thought than tax money which has not made a detour through Europe .
This is done under the motto : if we do not spend this European money , somebody else will .
This may sound harsh or even simplistic , but that is how it is .
I have not even mentioned the overlap which exists in a large number of these European credits .
National states provide development aid , so does Europe .
National states combat racism , so does Europe .
National states support the women ' s movement , so does Europe .
National states support the trade unions and parties , so does Europe .
National states support all kinds of Third Way movements , so does Europe .
And so on and so forth .
Returning to today ' s topic , I would especially like to congratulate the rapporteur , Mrs Stauner , on her report .
There is no need to keep on about what is stated quite clearly in black and white in this report .
Mr President , the Committee on Budgetary Control is doing sterling work under Mrs Theato ' s , Mrs Van der Laan ' s , Mr Bsch ' s and Mr Blak ' s expert leadership .
I should also like to complement Mrs Stauner on a good report .
My group will not grant discharge in connection with an account which conceals more than it reveals and has been submitted by a Commission which despises openness , subsidiarity and democracy .
How is it different from the Commission which was overturned ?
Are our rapporteurs now getting complete information and full answers in response to their questions ?
No .
Have administrative procedures been instigated against those who had their hands in the till or covered up for those who had their hands in the till ?
No .
Has Mr Paul van Buitenen been rewarded for his courageous efforts to turn the Commission into a responsible organisation ?
No . He has moved to Luxembourg and has had to agree to keep quiet .
Moreover , any future van Buitens know that they will be fired if they behave as any person of integrity would expect of officials of the Commission .
It is you 20 who are responsible for the fact that the Commission ' s draft regulation on transparency will cause documents which are at present readily available to be locked away .
It is you 20 who are responsible for the fact that we , as Members of Parliament , are still not receiving the information we request .
You operate on the principles of absolute monarchy .
Come out into the open and acknowledge that it is no longer possible to govern with old-fashioned secrecy .
Admit that you will be replaced if you continue to sweep the dirt under the carpet .
You will soon have been in office for a year , so we have to observe that you too will be accountable if you fail to meet your responsibilities .
And we must apply the same critical standard against ourselves .
Mr President , a few years ago discharges in this House used to be perfunctory debates , certainly not held on Tuesday mornings .
But we now have a wider remit to discuss this subject. and over the last few years it has been realised that discharge is a very important part of the life of the European Union .
Under Article 276 ( 2 ) , the EC Treaty requires the Commission to submit to Parliament any necessary information on the execution of expenditure and operation of the financial control systems .
Article 276 ( 3 ) of the Treaty requires the Commission to take all appropriate steps to act on Parliament ' s observations concerning execution of expenditure .
I congratulate all the rapporteurs on the discharges before the House this morning .
I have a few comments on Mr Kuhne ' s and Mrs Stauner ' s reports .
Firstly , on the question of the Parliament discharge .
If we take the context of this report we will see that it has to stand on its own merits .
If we add to that the Court of Auditors ' report on the operation of the political groups , we have come to the conclusion in our political group that we need to postpone discharge on its own merits .
It is not a question of the popping of champagne corks between Brussels and Strasbourg , that is an irrelevance if I might put it politely .
It is not a question of parallelism , it is a question of substance .
Secondly , I turn to Mrs Stauner ' s excellent report and the explanatory statement .
You can ask for access to information , but if you do not get it then you have to start applying a certain rigidity and postpone discharge .
The explanatory statement very clearly sets out the reasons for so doing .
I come to two points here .
The first is access to information .
We do not have at this time a framework agreement between Commission and Parliament - that is still outstanding in the context of Annex III .
Why ?
Because Parliament and the Commission cannot agree about what access we have to information .
The impression is left that we are foot-dragging , but in fact we are not getting complete answers to the questions put by Mr Bsch and Mr Blak .
Parliament is not getting the answers it requires .
Secondly , the question of the disciplinary procedure .
It is an arbitrary procedure .
It seems that high officials get off and ex-parliamentarians , who are in the Commission services get downgraded for no apparent reason and against the information available .
I am thinking of the case of Mr Zavvos in particular .
Therefore we , as a Parliament , should look at each of these cases as it stands .
My group will be in favour of postponing discharges both for the Commission and for Parliament until all the information is available to us .
The fact has been overlooked today that , if memory serves me well , this is the first time the finance ministers of this Union have not unanimously recommended that the Commission be granted discharge .
As far as the information policy is concerned , I am in full agreement with Mr Elles .
We are not holding you responsible for past errors , but I believe that , pragmatically speaking , we are entitled to expect two things of you .
Firstly , you must ensure that monies paid in error or , as in the Flchard case , sums waived in error are recovered .
In other words , you must repair the damage to the taxpayer , insofar as it can still be repaired .
Secondly , you must ensure that the people responsible for mismanagement and erroneous developments are punished consistently , if necessary by making them compensate for part of the damage caused out of their own pocket .
That would represent two innovations at the Commission because , as far as I am aware , officials implicated have never yet had to pay money back into the EU budget .
The provisions of the financial regulation on this point do not need to be revised .
We need no reforms for the purpose , we merely need to apply these provisions , otherwise they will remain dead letter .
Having said this , you will understand , I think , that we have serious doubts about some of the proposals which you have put before the European public in the much-publicised Commission reform .
I need only refer to your plan to do away with independent - I repeat - independent financial control or your plan to delete provisions on the financial liability of authorising officers from the financial regulation .
It is obvious that some people have been living in glass houses in Brussels for a very long time .
Mrs Schreyer , Members of the Commission , use the postponement of discharge for the 1998 budget as an opportunity to show that the new team is strong on management and able to act .
Mr President , the key task of this European Parliament is , and remains , that of restoring European citizens ' confidence in the European project .
Our most powerful weapon in this regard is the discharge .
This is why the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party is in favour of postponing discharge , as suggested , until such time as the Commission has fulfilled our specific condition .
In this way , we can keep the pressure on and bring about real reform .
Unfortunately , the Council failed once again this year to follow the good example of Parliament , and discharge for 1998 has been granted as if the matter were quite insignificant .
This is particularly regrettable because the national governments are responsible for 80 % of European spending and are , as such , responsible for a proportionate share of the irregularities .
It is now high time that the Council followed our example and searched its own heart .
There is no doubt that our discharge resolutions are effective . This is borne out by the far-reaching reforms which the Commission has now undertaken .
I would like to illustrate this with a recent example . Our pressure has prompted the European Commission to undertake drastic reform in foreign policy .
I am keen , therefore , to share with you my initial reaction .
The attention paid to the discharge granted to the European Commission is overwhelming , but I am of the opinion that the discharge granted to the European Parliament deserves just as much , if not more , attention .
Within the European Commission , a drastic reform programme has been launched at our insistence .
Unfortunately , it has proved impossible so far to take the same drastic steps in this House .
The Kuhne report is Parliament ' s first report which takes discharge seriously .
Not only did Mr Kuhne manage to identify the sensitive areas where all the key points were concerned , he also managed to set fixed deadlines .
This is what Parliament will be judged on and he deserves our true appreciation for this work .
Some claim that the European Parliament should be judged by the same stringent measures as the European Commission .
I do not share this view .
In my opinion , we should raise the standard for ourselves .
We are the controlling body .
We have the direct link with the citizen .
We are primarily responsible for restoring their confidence in the European project .
This is why it is not enough to measure up against the non-elected officials within the Commission .
We should outstrip them by far . Unfortunately , nothing is further from the truth .
I would like to emphatically lay the blame for Parliament ' s bad image with those who have always had a majority .
The two large parties are responsible for the ethos of nepotism and underhand dealing which permeates this House .
But the small parties too which have mismanaged the party funding have once again put our name in a bad light .
The Kuhne report will be an important weapon which can be used by those in favour of reform in this House .
But whether it will be adopted at this stage remains to be seen .
We must think very hard about this so that we can actually restore the citizen ' s confidence .
Mr President , Commissioners , ladies and gentlemen , do not try to argue that what is wrong is right .
That is the attitude we must adopt in this difficult exercise constituted by the annual discharge .
Mrs Theato was right in stating that granting discharge is a serious matter .
To grant discharge is , when all is said and done , to grant a certificate of good management .
I would like to thank all rapporteurs , but also the Committee on Budgetary Control , for all their hard work .
The Stauner report , including the explanatory note - which I fully support , by the way - is very critical of the European Commission .
The four largest groups have reached a compromise in which it is recommended that discharge be delayed and that the European Commission be given a list of 17 specific questions .
I am in favour of this approach and as such , would like to ask you to adopt Mrs Stauner ' s report without any further ado .
Secondly , I would like to comment on the Kuhne report .
I am not trying to argue that what is wrong is right .
I wish to make it absolutely clear here that the Kuhne report does not follow this theme .
Mr Kuhne has completed an excellent piece of work .
His report incisively denounces what is going wrong in our institutions .
Mrs Morgan told us a moment ago that we do not want witch-hunts .
But Mrs Morgan , this is not happening .
What we denounce is stated quite clearly in the courageous report of our financial controller , Mr O 'Hannrachain .
The complaints are staggering and include a faulty inventory and many thefts .
I was a victim of this myself in a previous life when my computer and printer were stolen .
Secondly , there are far too many restricted and private allocations .
These should be the exception , but we have noticed that in 1998 , 50 % of the cases were awarded privately .
This is no longer the exception .
Thirdly , I would like to mention buildings policy , a policy in which decisions are taken step-by-step , rather like slicing a salami , and which is made up of faits accomplis .
The price tag is FFR 27.4 million . This is ludicrous !
Mr Kuhne has hit out in the press and also here today at the stance taken by my Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance .
He is blaming us for playing a party-political game .
Well , Mr Kuhne , I can assure you that this is not the case .
What we are doing is being consistent in our approach , however .
Surely , asking for our offices to be treated in the same way as the Commission is not a political game .
Hence our amendment which recommends postponement of discharge for Parliament ' s budget and which has given the Secretary-General a list of queries which we expect to be answered by 15 May .
I therefore hope to receive more support for our amendment which was completely voted down in the Committee on Budgetary Control .
I am now counting on a majority in the plenary meeting .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , Mrs Stauner ' s report , which we are discussing today , is important in more than one respect .
This report is also important because it deals with serious inefficiencies in the European Commission ' s implementation of the budget , inefficiencies involving considerable amounts of money .
We are extremely concerned at both the irregularities committed within the scope of the MED and ECHO programmes and at some of the details of the Flchard case .
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group is convinced that such practices can only seriously impair the credibility and , hence , the image of the European Union as a whole .
In view of the many contentious issues still pending , whether they involve irregularities or budget funds , our Group considers that , at the moment , it is essential to refuse discharge for the year 1998 .
For us to grant discharge without asking the European Commission for further details would , of course , be evidence of weakness on the part of the European Parliament .
This House would lose face and would discredit itself in the eyes of public opinion in our countries , and that is something we do not want .
Regarding the European Commission ' s proposal , there could be no question of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group ' s accepting sharing responsibility for the decision on discharge .
The Treaties clearly establish the exclusive competence of Parliament in matters of budgetary control .
Mr President , the 1998 discharge procedure illustrates once again that the European Union ' s bad image is not totally unfounded but is actually based on facts .
In its 1998 annual report , the Court of Auditors mentioned an unacceptably high error rate and felt compelled , would you believe , to issue a negative Statement of Assurance .
As long as the Commission does not commit itself to drastically reducing that error rate from the beginning of next year , we cannot grant discharge to the Commission .
The Stauner report deserves every support on this score .
We in Parliament set high standards for the Commission , but do we set them for ourselves too ?
We are right in insisting that the Commission base its budget on accurate estimates , but how accurate are the estimates for our own budget ?
Year in year out , many EP budget lines show up enormous surpluses which are subsequently used to purchase buildings by means of a collective transfer .
I cannot help thinking that many administrative expenses are intentionally estimated on the generous side in order to have the extra funding for buildings in reserve .
These shady tricks must stop at once .
We also need to search our own hearts regarding public tenders .
It is unacceptable that the number of privately awarded contracts in 1998 increased to half of all contracts .
Why such a steep rise ?
The Secretary-General has mentioned a few procedural reasons , but is this the full story ?
A clarification regarding this drastic rise is urgently required .
Rapporteur Kuhne also puts his finger on the problems regarding the financing of the Spinelli building . This is the umpteenth affair involving new buildings .
Is it not about time we commissioned an independent inquiry into the decision-making process for building projects ?
We can no longer afford to cover the above issues with the cloak of charity .
We need to exert parliamentary pressure to bring about the necessary reforms .
We will therefore support the amendments to postpone discharge until such time as the Secretary-General has produced concrete plans .
Furthermore I would like you to look at Mrs Stauner ' s report from the most positive point of view possible .
All the groups have reached an agreement to raise 17 questions in relation to certain cases .
They are not the only ones . We could have mentioned other problems arising from the TACIS or PHARE programmes .
I can assure you that you will be able to reply in the affirmative to each of the cases which we are putting to you .
Therefore , between now and the summer , we could hold a sitting for the purposes of discharging the accounts .
Not only are we as interested as you in the discharge of the accounts , but in fact we are more so .
I would therefore like you to study the report which has been presented by Mrs Stauner with the broad consensus of the Groups .
This is a political debate , and you must understand that we need you to act .
Documents must not disappear .
You must do something , irrespective of the fact that I want us to reach an agreement soon on the way we will have to deal with the documents you call confidential .
As rapporteur for the 1999 Commission budget , I would love to be able to do my work in the clear knowledge of which documents we have access to and which we do not and why .
I will give you an additional piece of information .
This debate must not concentrate excessively on the accounting issues .
As you can see in this budget , this is a political debate which goes beyond a strict examination of what you have done with regard to the 1998 budget .
It is a general debate .
You know that an unknown amount of money is lost through fraud or misappropriation .
You are facing a great challenge , because even more resources are lost through a lack of motivation , that virus which has infected the entire administration of the Commission and which you must eradicate .
More resources are lost through lack of motivation than through misappropriation .
This is a quality issue which will also have to be increasingly discussed in the context of this debate .
Of course we must . However we must not compare separate issues .
For example , the auditor has not detected any irregularity in Parliament ' s budget .
We must therefore be prudent and fair and try to treat everyone as they deserve .
I will end by saying that you can reply to the 17 questions we have raised .
Mr President , the new Commission is not responsible for matters from the past , but it is to be judged on the basis of its willingness to straighten out its affairs .
So far , it has not shown much desire to do so .
The Commission has put the lid on the issue , and it has been impossible to obtain the necessary information .
The Commission maintains that the matters in question do not fall under the 1998 discharge .
That is not the case .
All these matters surfaced in 1998 and they should therefore , of course , also be dealt with under the 1998 discharge .
The Commission has , on the whole , employed many dodges to avoid responding to our questions , and that is completely unacceptable .
The Treaty is clear : in accordance with Article 276 , Parliament is entitled to obtain all necessary information in connection with the discharge procedure .
I should like to give an example .
In accordance with general practice , I , as the rapporteur responsible for the subject of development aid , sent the Commission a questionnaire concerning ECHO .
It was sent to the Commission in November .
Only in March did I receive an answer in which , moreover , I was told to take a running jump .
In the meantime , Mrs Fontaine received a letter from Mr Prodi , stating that the Commission was tired of answering all the stupid questions from the Committee on Budgetary Control .
Excuse me but , either the man has been out in the sun too long or he must have some incredibly bad advisers .
The Commission is obliged to answer our questions , irrespective of whether or not it likes the content of these .
Until they understand this , I think we should postpone granting discharge .
I hope the Commission will take our demands seriously .
If they do not , we shall be ready to send them on a very long holiday in May .
I should like to explain what the ECHO case is about .
First and foremost , I should like to emphasise that this is not a smear campaign directed against individuals , but a question of putting matters in order .
What signal is being sent out to present and future leaders of the Commission when the people responsible escape indictment ?
The ECHO scandal has still not led to any repercussions .
The problem is that the ECHO case is not about property crime .
It is about gross negligence and about an official who has taken decisions without regard to the finance regulation .
The decision to exonerate the previous director was taken by the previous Commission , and this was a political decision pure and simple .
Now , the Commission has until 15 May to solve the problem .
If they do not come up with satisfactory solutions , I shall campaign for our obtaining a parliamentary committee of inquiry which can examine the matter in depth .
I also think it is a good idea to look a little more closely at the discharge for the development fund .
There are still unresolved demands but , if we postpone granting the discharge , this will be accompanied by clear demands upon the Commission .
The Commission ' s delegations have failed .
There are several examples of cases where they could have prevented fraud if they had been just a little observant .
Unfortunately , there are too many delegations which are just there for the ride .
I have therefore asked permission to prepare an own-initiative report so that we can have these issues clarified .
The final thing I want to say is that the Commission should undertake to refer the fraud cases to OLAF .
I look forward to seeing the results .
Mr President , the issue of discharge is an immense one for the institutions of the EU .
Its importance is evident in the fact that in many cases it is now being proposed that the discharge should be postponed .
As far as the Commission is concerned , this is the fifth year in succession that the Court of Auditors has not delivered an unambiguously favourable verdict .
As the Member States , that is to say the Council , has advocated discharge , this is almost a matter of structural conflict .
Apparently , the Court of Auditors should specify the shortcomings and incidences of malpractice in more detail and place less trust in mathematics .
Although I say this , in no way does this diminish the Commission ' s responsibility , which is a great one .
The reports concerning discharge show just how badly administrative reforms are needed .
Commissioner Kinnock ' s package of reforms must be pushed through without delay .
The main focus is the reform of internal auditing in each of the institutions .
Administration and auditing must go hand in hand to preserve a sense of personal responsibility and help it grow .
The present system , in which it takes various signatures to authorise payments , does away with the notion of personal responsibility .
It is totally impossible to find anyone who will take responsibility .
Improving the quality of administration is a basic requirement for a greater sense of responsibility and better efficiency .
Increased control is only a reflection of the fact that the organisation has failed .
The main financial difficulties focus on the largest budgetary category , agriculture .
This is because agricultural aid is largely based either on land area or the number of livestock , and the Member State in question pays it .
This development is largely due to the WTO agreement , which determines the various forms of agricultural aid , their classification and the desired trend it should adopt .
Mr President , over the last few days we have read in the press that the European Parliament is a haven for thieves .
This is both embarrassing and distasteful .
We must act in such a way that EU property is treated with the same respect as other property .
In this connection , we must check up on the matter of parliamentary administration .
In the EU budget this year there is an appropriation of EUR 300 000 set aside for an investigation into parliamentary administration .
According to the budget , this investigation will be given to an independent expert .
What has happened to this investigation , why has it not got under way , and what is going to be done about it ?
This applies when small family-run farms , such as those dedicated to producing milk , find themselves outside the subsidy arrangements and find their very survival is threatened .
This will ensure that agricultural expenditure is treated like any other expenditure involving EU resources , and this will strengthen Parliament ' s power of intervention .
Mr President , Commissioner , I was responsible for the research section of the part of the report by my fellow member , Gabriele Stauner , relating to internal policy .
I was perfectly aware of its importance .
However , what we could not foresee was that , with the vote on the overall report , outbursts very similar to those at the time of the refusal of discharge for 1996 would occur once again .
To refer to the corresponding passages on research , I also make a statement on what have deliberately and disparagingly been referred to on occasions as old cases .
Old cases are not the same as obsolete cases ; they are an outstanding burden which the Commission must finally remove from our shoulders .
The Court of Auditors highlighted a series of shortcomings in the research area in 1998 .
There is the old case of visiting scientist B and how his contract came into being .
They also include the internal audit report drafted in 1997 on the area of jurisdiction of the former Commissioner for Research , Mrs Cresson .
This report disappeared from the filing cabinet at the end of 1999 / beginning of 2000 .
At the same time , there was the so-called European nuclear affair .
Who then is going to be surprised that a link between the financial controller ' s filing cabinet and the roaming plutonium was established at the end of 1999 ?
We might be satisfied with some of the explanations that the Commission offers for these incidents .
Having spoken on many occasions , I am pleased to say , with trustworthy Commission officials , I have the impression that they are ready and willing to make corrections .
As are we .
But mistakes have been made and the audit was organised as politely as when an auditor visits a company .
However , it was the Court of Auditors that carried out the audit , an institution that has no form of personal interest in the matter and it is no good playing down the mistakes .
I call on the Commission to immediately give us satisfactory answers , which stand up in public .
Then everyone will have a true picture .
Questions can hurt .
We asked them because mistrust and criticism have been spreading since the refusal of the 1996 discharge .
But what matter are the results which will be presented on 15 May .
Mr President , representatives of the Commission , ladies and gentlemen , the discharge procedure is a complicated exercise .
I am thinking of the Structural Funds for the things already achieved , and the Financial Regulation for the things already achieved .
This report was unacceptable in its initial form because it did not give us the material to form an opinion as to whether or not the budget for 1998 was correctly implemented by the Commission .
The content and the arguments presented in other more specific reports provide no more justification for postponement of discharge .
In this specific situation , it would seem that the current discharge procedure would be a perilous exercise .
Should this not require giving a more precise framework to the work of Members of Parliament within the Committee on Budgetary Control ?
I shall conclude by mentioning the internal reform of the Commission .
Among other objectives , the Commission has set itself the task of improving financial control by various means : new structures , responsibilities of authorising officers , and financial controllers within each directorate-general .
We must be attentive to ensuring that this reform makes it possible to achieve the set objective and that it requires the various financial operators within the directorates-general to assume real responsibility .
Mr President , this is a useful and very necessary procedure .
It is necessary to acknowledge that 98 % was properly spent .
There is fraud at every level of government at which I have served - local , national and European and regional .
It is always there , but local and national bodies can stand up to criticism better perhaps than this younger institution of the European Union , which is less accepted .
While it is important to put things right and to give people confidence , nevertheless it does not help their confidence if we exaggerate the extent to which abuses occur and money is lost .
I thank Mrs Stauner for her report . Some people have criticised it for being a bit too severe .
Mrs Stauner is new to the Budget Control Committee , but her statement is a real reflection of the mood and the debate that went on .
I do not agree with all of it , of course , but nevertheless it was agreed by a majority .
I would not entirely accept the explanatory statement .
It is Mrs Stauner 's own explanation but it is the motion for resolution that we the Parliament have to decide on .
We ought avoid particularly vendettas between an institution and individual commissioners .
The last point I will make is that we have not only an obligation to ensure that accounts are better kept and money is better accounted for .
We also have an obligation to ensure that when we make regulations they are regulations which can be put into effect .
Mr President , Parliament ' s refusal last year to grant discharge on the 1996 budgetary year heralded the fall of the Santer Commission .
Parliament employed its powers in a sound manner under special circumstances .
A college of Commissioners , which has since been appointed , has presented an ambitious reform programme .
Last year ' s opposition from the Commission to Parliament has now developed into good working relations .
Needless to say , Parliament needs to keep a critical eye on the Commission .
It is unseemly , however , to deploy the discharge procedure as a weapon in a party-politically motivated battle and , what is more , it undermines Parliament ' s influence in the long run .
Mrs Stauner ' s motion for a resolution , which was before us initially was , in this respect , unbalanced . It over-simplified the issue and its sole aim appeared to be to malign the new Commission .
Her motion for a resolution contained damning accusations regarding the Commission which , as it happens , did not even relate to the 1998 budget year .
Meanwhile , the motion for a resolution has been amended drastically and the suggestion was made to postpone the discharge decision .
The Commission is being given the opportunity of responding to a number of urgent questions raised and requests made by Parliament before 15 May .
I would like to single out one point from among these questions and requests .
Over the past year , it has become clear that the Commission ' s disciplinary procedure does not function properly .
In countless cases , no action was taken or if it was , it did not lead to any result .
The procedure needs to be completely overhauled .
The Commission has made suggestions to this effect in its White Paper . However , these suggestions do not go far enough .
The Committee of Independent Experts has recommended the appointment of an independent outsider , preferably in the role of chairman of the Disciplinary Committee .
Parliament supported this proposal in January and does so once again by means of this motion for a resolution .
I would ask the Commission to reconsider its position .
The European Parliament ' s financial situation has been the subject of extensive media coverage over the past few weeks .
Mr Kuhne has drawn up a report on this subject , on which I would like to warmly congratulate him .
He did not let himself be talked into adjusting his well-balanced approach in the face of sometimes heated publications .
The Kuhne report proposes granting Parliament discharge , provided a number of well-defined requirements are met .
For example , the offices of Parliament are expected , from now on , to offer , in the majority of cases , contracts for tender which are public in nature .
In addition , Parliament needs to indicate when the reform process which is being launched within the Commission will start taking effect in Parliament .
One of the key proposals is to separate the audit and financial control functions .
The Commission has already indicated that it will submit proposals to this effect before the summer .
I am of the opinion that such separation should also take place within Parliament .
An independent parliamentary audit office needs to be set up as soon as possible whose task is to ensure the effectiveness of public spending by Parliament .
Such an office should make annual - and if necessary , more frequent - recommendations regarding the working method of Parliament ' s offices .
Only when Parliament has its own financial housekeeping in order will it gain credibility when it comes to assessing and sometimes condemning the Commission and Member States .
Mr President , as the Commission is well aware , I am not accustomed to being an easy-going , meek or lenient speaker when it comes to the Commission in its role as executive .
I am therefore all the more at home today in expressing the concerns I have due to the discharge procedure which is being carried out .
I do not wish to challenge the compromise which appears in the resolution negotiated between the political groups and the rapporteur .
This compromise has three distinct advantages over the rapporteur ' s initial draft .
In this respect , the report has been improved .
Thirdly , this report asks the Commission questions which it can answer within reasonable time limits , enabling us to vote upon discharge within the time limits stipulated by the Treaty .
These are the three positive features .
There are , however , three forms of sidelong shift which give me pause .
The first is that we are forgetting what the discharge procedure consists of .
It is paradoxical , and even unfair , that the report in question makes so little mention of the financial year 1998 .
The second shift in emphasis involves the failure to make it clear that the explanatory statement is distinct from the report .
How many journalists are aware that the resolution represents the opinion of the House but that the explanatory statement represents only the opinion of the rapporteur ?
This gives us grounds for concern .
The third and final anomaly is the gap between Parliament ' s handling of its own problems and Parliament ' s handling of other people ' s problems .
We cannot adopt a sliding scale for measuring correct behaviour , and we are taking a major political risk if we are more indulgent towards ourselves than towards others .
Mr President , thank you for letting me conclude .
I should just like to mention the maxim that the police always catch serial killers as soon as they step up the rate of their killing .
We brought the Commission down a year ago , and we had better not give in to our homicidal impulses again .
Mr Bourlanges , you have spoken rather longer than the time allocated to you , but you are such a committed fighter , there is no stopping you !
Mr President , I shall focus on only one point : access to information .
Many of my colleagues have raised this issue this morning .
We need better access in order to move forward .
In my committee , the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy , we are determined to take our responsibilities as MEPs very seriously indeed .
We have asked Members of Parliament to volunteer to follow budget lines .
These Members of Parliament are now approaching Commission services to talk to the officials responsible for those budget lines .
Some services cooperate very well ; some are setting up briefing meetings for Members of Parliament - but others are not .
What we need from the Commission is a new system .
We need a better reporting mechanism to parliamentary committees , to the spending committees , so that we know what information it is going to give us .
A start would be a list of who is responsible for what in which budget lines of each committee .
Only in this way can we do what we are supposed to do , and restore the public confidence that Mrs Schreyer spoke about this morning .
We need to know that money is being spent properly .
If we have that confidence we can pass that message on to the public in Europe .
My colleague , Mrs Morgan , spoke earlier about the need to overhaul the whole discharge procedure .
That is right .
For too long discharge was seen as something bureaucratic and rather unnecessary - something to get out of the way very quickly .
Now we have to move away from that , we have to overhaul it , and I hope proper reporting mechanisms to committees will be part of that overhaul .
Mr President , I am speaking here especially in the capacity of rapporteur of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs .
First of all , I would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur for her report .
I would also like to comment on a few points which are included in the report of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs .
Firstly , we share the Court of Auditors ' criticism regarding the inadequate measurability of the effects upon employment of the structural fund measures .
I would ask the Commission to pay more attention to this aspect .
We have , slowly but surely , made tremendous progress in this field , but this does not seem to be evident from the way we are dealing with the funds .
Secondly , I would like to mention the issue of financing .
There have been problems recently regarding the payment credits of the Social Fund , in particular . Unfortunately , these problems have not been solved .
This merits further attention too .
Nevertheless , we wish to underline that this association needs to be brought to a definite close , and it is also important that sufficient consideration be given to the lessons we have learnt in the field of BAT .
These are the key points which I would like to highlight here .
The Committee on Budgetary Control has naturally been unable to adopt all these points in their entirety .
This would not have been appropriate either , but I would like to take this opportunity to add these specific points to the list which is , in fact , already before you .
First , we take the view that we must learn lessons from past cases and , of course , clear up every single case for which we have new , additional proof .
Nonetheless , we want to give the Commission instructions which look to the future , not instructions to deal with a past for which it is not even responsible .
Secondly , we passed punishable offences to the courts in a one-off show of strength during the last parliamentary term .
We ensured that OLAF had the structure and facilities needed to pursue any suspicions or irregularities .
Demanding a new audit , without submitting any proof or evidence , is hardly going to enhance the credibility of our Parliament .
Mr President , I welcome all the reports on the discharge procedures , especially Mrs Stauner 's report .
Before I make my initial comments , I just wish to welcome what Mrs McAvan said about access to information from the Commission .
I have found it remarkably difficult to get important documents and information from it on a number of occasions , especially for various budget lines relating to culture .
It would be very useful if the Commission were to release more information to us and give us the reports we ask for .
These are all relevant nowadays because we must learn the lessons from them .
Any new proof that arises from these cases must be investigated .
These investigations must be very rigorous and must be reported back to us .
OLAF must use its teeth .
The three cases I have mentioned are also quite important because they reflect remarkably on four current Commissioners .
All four of them must look carefully at their past , come clean and show this new Commission where reform is needed .
I hope that Commissioner Kinnock listens to this debate and will reflect upon .
There are lessons to be learned and many questions to be answered and he is the man in charge of getting these questions answered for us now .
I also wish to make a couple of points on the Kuhne report on Parliament 's own budget discharge .
We regularly cast stones at the Commission , but when it comes to looking at our own finances sometimes we are a bit slow on the uptake .
I welcome the fact that the Kuhne report has called for a report on the new inventory system for Parliament .
I hope the Commission takes the time to look at this debate seriously .
This Parliament is very serious in the way it discharges various budgets .
I agree with Mrs Morgan that maybe we need to reflect on how we discharge budgets in the future .
However , for now , the Commission has a number of questions to answer and I hope it will start right now .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , this is the second time I have spoken today and I should like to thank you for the highly constructive atmosphere in which this extremely detailed debate is being conducted .
Because of the time available , I cannot , of course , comment on every intervention ; however , I shall try to summarise the various points .
The question of access to information in order to be able to carry out the discharge procedure with the required degree of seriousness and with the documents which you need for the discharge process was central to various interventions .
I should like to point out once again in this context that the Commission has passed all the confidential reports requested to the rapporteur , or rather to the Committee on Budgetary Control .
There is in fact a contentious issue , which also needs to be regulated for the procedure for the future , and that is the question of the minutes of disciplinary proceedings or administrative investigations .
This question has again been left out of the agreement on the grounds of valuable personal interests and I should like to point out that specific regulations also apply to Parliament in disciplinary proceedings .
I should also like to comment on Mr Blak ' s question on the questionnaires .
There has been a specific procedure for questionnaires in the past .
The committee has now changed this , albeit informally .
This resulted in the Commission ' s confusion as to whether or not the questionnaire drafted by Mr Blak , but not confirmed by the committee , was an official questionnaire .
The Commission then said that it would , of course , reply to the questionnaire , despite the fact that this point was not clarified .
That again shows that it really does make sense here to lay down clear procedural rules .
The Commission is really not interested in such misunderstandings or discussions ; let us lay down clear procedures here so that our cooperation is complete and satisfies all concerned .
I should like to pick up on a point made by the chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control because the question of why the list of old cases was not passed on was asked .
I can only say in this context that the procedure changed with the legal basis for OLAF .
The legal basis for OLAF clearly states that the director of OLAF is responsible for information on investigations or the results of investigations .
I think we need to discuss this at some point together with the Committee on Budgetary Control and the director of OLAF because the Commission no longer has jurisdiction here .
It has no more information than you do , on which investigations are at what stage .
We have to discuss this with the director of OLAF .
I shall , of course , pass on any requests but I cannot give you any information in lieu of the director of OLAF in this respect .
Another important point is the question of disciplinary procedure and I should like to comment on this .
The Commission explained to Mr Van Hulten in its White Paper that it would reform this disciplinary procedure as it now stands .
Nonetheless , our reform must remain within the bounds of the European Treaty .
A multitude of points were made but I should like to comment on the question of the discharge procedure .
Mr Bsch , you made the comment that the Council did not unanimously recommend discharge for the Commission this year .
In fact , it was the Netherlands which failed to carry the decision on the grounds that the Commission should draw up a clear timetable .
Mr Mulder , you also returned to this point .
It is not a question of reducing control but of making it more efficient .
No one must be able to hide behind centralised financial control .
The Commission has also decided to set up a separate , internal ex-post audit service and I think that this will again demonstrate that the Commission takes the subject of improved financial control extremely seriously .
It has been clearly stated that the objective must be to reduce the error rate and I can only agree with this .
But obviously I cannot reduce the error rates for the 1998 or 1999 budgets in retrospect .
On the contrary , the objective is to take clear steps to achieve a better result in the future .
That is the purpose of the action plan submitted by the Commission .
I should like in this respect to come back to what you said , Mr Poms Ruiz , i.e. that the Commission should perhaps tell the committee which confidential reports it has submitted for the discharge procedure .
I would be glad to comply with this request because I think it too helps clarify matters .
Mrs Langenhagen used her intervention to criticise the independent financial controller of the Union in connection with a report on the research centre in Geel .
However , I should like to point out that to say that the financial controller is responsible for the plutonium incident in Geel is unfounded because she exercises no atomic supervision or any other type of supervision in Geel .
Mrs Ferreira , allow me to congratulate you on your first speech in Parliament and to thank you for your call for cooperation for the benefit of European politics .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11.30 a.m.
( The sitting was suspended at 11.45 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon )
Vote
On behalf of the Commission , and in particular , on behalf of my colleague Mr Byrne , let me say that the Commission sees its way to accepting all the amendments that have been proposed by Parliament .
I need not add anything further since Parliament , I am sure , will welcome this .
( The President declared the common position approved as amended )
( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
Before the final vote :
Ladies and gentlemen , the Commission supports all the proposed amendments adopted .
( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
Before the vote on the amendments :
Mr President , the European People ' s Party would like a separate vote on Amendment No 19 . As such , we would like to propose a split vote .
I am sorry but it is too late .
The request was not submitted in time .
It has to be made the evening before the votes .
The Rules are very clear .
I should explain to the House that the reason we do this is so that all the groups can prepare their voting slips and so that there is no confusion during the votes .
If we start breaking that rule then it just creates chaos during the votes .
( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTES
Staes report ( A5-0084 / 2000 ) :
The proposal before us today aims to amend Directive 95 / 53 / EC in order to provide a legal instrument more appropriate to the requirements of inspections in the field of animal nutrition .
Following the dioxin crisis in May 1999 , it was apparent that it was necessary to adapt this legislation .
At that time the Commission announced a legislative programme with a view to improving food safety regulations .
The programme was adopted by the Council and by the European Parliament , and included a revision of Directive 95 / 53 / EC .
At the time , several problems had been identified .
Mismanagement of the crisis , particularly the poor coordination between the various authorities involved , became apparent and was noted in the course of the Commission inspection .
There were delays in transmitting the information on dioxin contamination to the Commission , and measures taken at national level were inadequate .
The common position did not adopt the European Commission ' s right to take safeguard measures appropriate to the context of animal nutrition in the event of an emergency .
Obviously , this is extremely reprehensible and even irresponsible !
This is why the rapporteur proposes reintroducing this clause , and I am pleased to see it because without this clause there is no guarantee of consumer protection in food crisis situations .
Lannoye report ( A5-0072 / 2000 ) :
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work on the proposal for the directive amending Directive 95 / 2 / EC .
This directive authorises the use of a number of new food additives which are currently banned but which have been assessed recently by the Scientific Committee for Food ( SCF ) and deemed fit for human consumption .
The report clearly expresses consumer concerns in the face of the flood of additives , of chemicals , into our daily diet .
Indeed , our diet has changed radically under the influence of lifestyle changes and the contributions of new technologies .
The time devoted to preparing meals has been reduced considerably .
This often leads us to eat ready-made meals , which are practical but which do not really suit our tastes or fulfil our vitamin and mineral requirements .
The fact is , the industrial foodstuffs which wind up on our plates have often undergone intense processing leading to the loss of flavour , texture and colour .
In order to overcome these disadvantages , the chemists of the agri-foodstuffs industry add artificial flavourings , flavour enhancers , firming agents , colorants , etc .
What is more , with food distribution chains becoming ever longer , it becomes unavoidable to have recourse to preservatives and oxidation inhibitors .
This cannot fail to give rise to concerns on the part of consumers who , following recent food crises , are increasingly anxious to know just exactly what they have in their plates !
In response to these concerns , the European Union has endowed itself with a particularly complex arsenal of legislation which is supposed to eliminate any risk to the consumer .
So , in order to justify the inclusion of an additive in a foodstuff , there are three criteria which must be fulfilled , though there is still rather a wide margin for interpretation .
The technological need for the additive to be approved , for example , is obviously determined by the industry itself , which argues primarily in terms of reducing production costs and winning markets .
At the moment , this criterion is the weightiest consideration .
Usefulness for the consumer is a particularly vague concept .
Does the consumer really wish to eat a fruit or vegetable which has remained in his fridge for a month without changing in appearance ?
Finally , there is the criterion of harmlessness .
Before any substance may be authorised for use as a food additive , it must , in principle , be subjected to toxicological assessment .
Normally a great many tests are carried out on laboratory animals in order to determine whether the substance is harmless , and at what dosage it may be safely consumed .
There are still loopholes !
On the one hand , the human being does not always react in the same way that animals do , so extrapolating from the results of tests on animals to human experience is always problematic .
On the other hand , these experiments assess the effect of each substance taken in isolation .
Our diet , however , often contains a cocktail of different substances whose combined effect is rarely identified !
The precautionary principle must be used with the utmost rigour in matters of foodstuffs !
The Commission ' s proposal has not taken adequate account of this principle !
We therefore await Commission proposals for provisions that are directed more at improving consumer protection but also at promoting quality foodstuffs !
Kirkhope report ( A5-0090 / 2000 ) :
The Danish Social Democratic Members of the European Parliament have chosen to vote in favour of the report and fully and wholeheartedly support the initiatives being taken where this is concerned .
The Internet has created an entirely new situation where the duplication , sale and distribution of child pornography is concerned .
The Internet operates across national borders . It is not , therefore , possible for an individual State effectively to contain the spread of child pornography .
Initiatives such as this , in which cooperation between States is increased in the common struggle against the spread of child pornography , is absolutely necessary .
Having made this extremely alarming observation , it is essential to consider the means of combating this phenomenon in order to protect our children .
I must , in addition , congratulate the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs on its work , which produced some very interesting proposals .
One suggestion it makes is that every European Union Member State should make special police units responsible for monitoring the Internet , looking for pornographic material involving children .
If we wish to take effective action against child pornography on the Internet , it is not enough to simply react to crimes which have already been discovered .
In addition , the report sets the cut-off age at 16 for the definition of what must be considered to be child pornography .
I further support the rapporteur in insisting that the Council decision should be more binding and that the proposed measures should not be left to the discretion of the Member States .
In the same way , the idea of the ' offence of child pornography ' must be seen as quite comprehensive !
Without this qualification , users ' surfing ' the Internet and inadvertently accessing a site displaying child pornography would also be punishable .
Productions which , although they do not actually feature children , may suggest or intend to suggest that children are involved are also covered by the definition of offence .
Users of child pornography must be punished severely to serve as examples .
In addition , it is very important to organise better cooperation between Member States police forces through Europol .
The European Parliament must make bold proposals and must remain very vigilant .
We must utilise all the preventative and restrictive means possible to combat such phenomena .
This proposal is a step in this direction and I can therefore only give it my support .
This Council initiative is essential because it is not possible to allow childhood and naivety to be exploited for degrading commercial purposes , in denial of all humane values .
It is of the utmost importance to prevent such violations of the rights of individuals and the rights of children and not to confine ourselves to merely reacting .
I share the opinion of our rapporteur and the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs , that the Council proposal should be made more binding .
There is too much at stake for us to fail to call for the mobilisation of the general population against this danger , and that is why I am compelled to vote in favour of this report .
Regarding Amendments Nos 22-28 , which are the subjects of a joint vote , we would state the following .
In the same way , it is important that joint , effective measures should be taken and that the European Parliament should be kept informed of how this work is progressing .
The twenty-first century is the century of communications .
Paradoxically , it has become more usual to contact friends or colleagues on the other side of the world than to chat with one ' s next-door neighbours .
Within the vast Internet market there are some people who have found ways to make easy money from exploiting human poverty .
Amoral producers and distributors of material have decided to respond to the deviant urges of some individuals by disseminating pornographic documents involving children over the Internet .
And yet this House is indignant today at child pornography as if it were not all part of the continuum .
Once again this damage is caused by permissiveness , which , while it may satisfy the mania of some , remains a source of unhappiness for many others .
While the combat must involve international cooperation , however , it is also essential to fight on a day-to-day basis by preventing all these practices becoming commonplace .
Some people will retort , as they often do , that it has always existed and will always exist .
What a fatalistic comment , and what resignation , what contempt for the human condition !
I am delighted to see that our institutions are today becoming aware of the tragic fate experienced by thousands of children throughout the world , including our own countries , and are deciding to find a solution to it .
I hope , without too much confidence , that the day will come when our main concern will once again be for the public good , responding to the highest aspirations rather than to the lowest temptations .
Frahm report ( A5-0091 / 2000 ) :
Mr President , creating this European Refugee Fund is the very least that could be done to face up to the reception of refugees and forcibly displaced persons likely to enter European Union territory .
We are therefore voting in favour of creating the Fund , although it is clearly inadequate to ensure the decent reception of refugees and it is , above all , an alibi for lack of action .
Refugees which wealthy Europe has abandoned , in the most part , to the care of neighbouring countries in the region , which have still not recovered .
We also deplore the fact that the States of the European Union are making the allocation of refugee status ever more restrictive and more arbitrary .
But what additional contribution is this Fund going to make exactly , in comparison with the present situation ?
As in the case of the structural funds , the citizens will be led to believe that Europe is handing out heaven-sent money in order to assist them in managing refugees .
This money is not really heaven-sent , of course , it is taken away from those self-same citizens without their being aware of it .
Europe is thus creating a good reputation for itself on the cheap .
It is always the same process : some pitiful situation is selected ( the plight of the refugees , in this instance ) in order to appeal not to rational argument but to people ' s sympathy .
At the end of 1998 , the Commission proposed a Community action programme with a view to promoting the integration of refugees within the Union .
This represents a clear improvement on prevalent practice to date .
The Fund is to establish a financial redistribution system in order to balance out the financial expenses incurred by Member States in receiving refugees and to enable those with the least developed systems to bring them up to speed .
The Fund is a single instrument intended to integrate the three facets of European policy on refugees : the reception , integration and repatriation of refugees and displaced persons .
The target groups are refugees , under the Geneva Convention , persons that have applied for this status , and displaced persons that have requested protection on a temporary basis .
In addition to the structural measures , the Commission proposes to use this Fund to finance emergency measures in the event of an unexpected massive influx of refugees .
For the financial year 2000 , the Commission proposes an allocation of EUR 26 million for structural measures and EUR 10 million for emergency measures .
As is often the case , this allocation is inadequate to handle the actual requirements .
In order to obtain real results , the budget for this Fund must be increased .
Let me conclude by emphasising that creating this European Refugee Fund represents the first step towards a common asylum system and we must continue to work towards this .
If the purpose of creating a European Refugee Fund were to make asylum and refugee policy in the Member States of the Union more humane and open , then it would be a welcome step .
The Fund , which is merely the product of a combination of three budgetary lines , will not do this .
There is evidence in addition to the debate as to what the creation of the European Refugee Fund really means . It means " distributing the burden " .
An approach whereby immigrants entering the EU in search of protection are seen as a " burden " which has to be " distributed " is fundamentally flawed .
No policy which takes humane account of the needs of persons fleeing persecution can be constructed on such a basis .
The policy of the Member States and of the Union is geared towards heading off and turning away refugees , as the recent inclusion of a " re-adoption " clause in the Lom Convention demonstrates .
The Fund will not , in this form , cause any country to switch to a policy of greater openness towards the immigration of refugees .
Nor will it improve the legal security of persons fleeing persecution and in search of protection .
But it is precisely the legal security and the right of participation of refugees , which must be considered .
The European Union calls throughout the world for freedom of movement for capital .
But it is reducing the freedom of movement of persons yet further by closing borders and cutting itself off from refugees and asylum seekers .
Every year many refugees die , killed on the external borders of the EU .
To assume in these circumstances that creating a Refugee Fund will make for a more humane asylum and refugee policy is an illusion , which is why I have abstained .
That concludes the vote .
( The sitting was suspended at 12.25 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m. )
Outcome of the European Council in Lisbon , 23 -24 March 2000
The next item is the debate on the European Council report and the Commission statement on the outcome of the European Council in Lisbon , the Social Summit .
This objective also involves modernising the European social model , investing in people and combating social exclusion .
It also involves implementing sound macroeconomic policies encouraging economic growth and employment .
This is an open method of coordination , which we hope will produce optimal results .
These guidelines will also be transposed into national policies , and will be periodically monitored and assessed as part of a process of mutual learning between Member States .
The goals set at the Lisbon European Council are extremely ambitious and give specific mandates to the Commission .
The Research Council will assume responsibility for the e-Europe Action Plan and for promoting the establishment of a European research area .
The Telecommunications Council will assume responsibility for concluding the review of a regulatory framework for telecommunications and for the liberalisation of the market in this field .
The Consumer Affairs Council will assume responsibility for the distance selling of financial services - by approving pending legislation - and for alternative systems for resolving consumer disputes , by establishing a Community network .
The Industry Council will assume responsibility for drafting the charter for small businesses and for establishing a procedure for standardising appropriate practices for the creation and development of innovative businesses , particularly small- and medium-sized businesses .
The Justice and Home Affairs Council will be responsible for adopting the pending legislation on jurisdiction and enforcing judgements .
Madam President , Mr President-in-Office , ladies and gentlemen , as Mr Gama said , the recent Lisbon Summit was a great success for Europe .
It was certainly a turning point .
The European Council defined a new Union strategy , a strategy which will make us a leading power in the new knowledge-based economy and make it possible to restore the necessary conditions for full employment .
Even at this early stage , the revised forecasts for both economic growth and employment are cause for optimism .
This amounts to a completely unprecedented sign of confidence in Europe ' s future and in the future of our economy and our social cohesion .
Our success in Lisbon was largely due to the excellent preparatory work of the Portuguese Presidency .
Antnio Guterres ' handling of the debate was exemplary .
The Commission also made a decisive contribution to this success , for the conclusions are significantly similar to the contents of the preliminary synthesis document which we drew up in preparation for the Council .
The Lisbon debate generated substantial agreement on most issues .
The only truly disputed points were the time frames for the liberalisation of the energy and transport markets , public services , the tax package and the competences of regional authorities in education and training .
These issues are major but they are limited in number .
This high level of consensus allowed the Presidency to set an extremely ambitious agenda .
I will not go into the conclusions in too great a detail , but stick to the main points .
The European Council stressed the importance of a strong , sound macroeconomic policy , consolidation in the field of taxation and sustainable financial policies and the structural reforms .
The Commission was asked to develop a benchmarking strategy to define best practice and to guarantee both the development of the necessary infrastructures and the availability of the necessary funds .
With regard to the internal market , the European Council adopted ambitious objectives in the field of procurement and in order to implement action plans for financial services and risk capital .
In addition , measures will be taken to accelerate the liberalisation of transport , energy and postal services .
Research , education and lifelong learning all received a boost .
The Council also agreed on the need for a sharp increase in employment , particularly employment of women , and , I repeat , the forecasts are currently very encouraging .
Until recently , such an agreement would have been unthinkable , and this could be an extremely important development .
The Commission is therefore going to play a central role in the follow-up to this Summit .
These spring conferences , which will take place each year , will be important in terms of assessing progress made and developing future strategies .
The Commission will therefore play a crucial role in ensuring that the Council ' s undertakings are translated into practical measures , and that Lisbon is thus a genuine success for Europe .
The Commission must act as the driving force in this process .
Tomorrow , I am going to meet my fellow Commissioners to ensure that work starts immediately and that the various different objectives set are achieved .
I am determined to see that this Commission makes good its promises .
I would like to thank Parliament , before this House , for its encouragement , but also for the new ideas that it has given us during these debates .
In Lisbon , we also tackled the issue of the Balkans - in a meeting held during the break for supper , which was not on the agenda but was nevertheless a working meeting .
At that meeting I raised the point of the European Union ' s political responsibility for the Balkan region , and stressed that our entire credibility is at stake .
The European Council subscribed to the joint report prepared by the Commission and the High Representative , and also our request for more effective coordination between the various programmes implemented by the Union in that region .
I repeat before this House that the need for this coordination is urgent , spectacularly urgent .
Following my lead , the Heads of State and Government agreed upon the need to clean up the Danube .
We have accumulated the necessary resources and I now expect appropriate measures to be taken .
We also agreed to speed up the procedures for supplying aid to the Balkans .
Finally , on the subject of Russia , the European Council recognised the strategic nature of our relations with Moscow and invited President Putin to take note of our concern over the situation in Chechnya .
I sent him a letter congratulating him on his election and stressing the Commission ' s genuine interest in cooperating closely with the Russian Government , but the Chechnya issue was mentioned specifically .
To sum up , Madam President , I would like to thank this House for its valuable contribution to the Lisbon Summit and for all it did to ensure the Council ' s success .
I am counting on your full support and your cooperation to help us to achieve this .
The eyes of the citizens of Europe , whom you represent , are on us , and they expect a great deal of the follow-up to Lisbon . It is our duty not to let them down .
However , we were very pleased about the far-sighted messages which were to be found in the conclusions from the Summit .
I would also express great satisfaction at the fact that the opinion sets a time-frame for developing the single market in important areas , chiefly through the commitment to rapidly create a legal framework for e-commerce .
There are major advantages in a form of coordination based upon benchmarking , but we should of course be careful that the whole process does not take a bureaucratic turn or lead to over-zealous management .
Finally , I would offer an important and perhaps less complimentary remark .
In the Lisbon conclusions , the Council refers a good deal to what it is going to do in the future , perhaps following proposals on the part of the Commission .
I hope that we are not to read too much into this apparent emphasis upon the intergovernmental character of EU cooperation .
Madam President , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , President of the Commission , I think it is clear that , in January , when the Portuguese Presidency issued its first paper , the original impulse was perfectly laudable .
The widespread dissemination of communication technologies was going to cause , indeed , is causing considerable change in the living and working conditions of the citizens of Europe .
The conclusions of the Portuguese Presidency contain many positive commitments and objectives .
Having said that , Mr Prodi , the real challenge would be if , in coming months , you did not endorse this motion for a resolution , in the event that Parliament votes in favour of it tomorrow .
We therefore call upon you , along with the Council , to consider in further detail a number of points which we feel are noticeably absent from the Lisbon conclusions .
The first point is the strategic goal .
Has the strategic goal of sustainable development which was supposed to be an integral part of a twenty-first century economy , which would meet the requirements of the planet and its citizens , been forgotten ?
There is not one line on the reports which the Commission nonetheless submitted at the European Council in Helsinki . Not one line on the practical implementation of Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union .
The connection must be made between the dissemination of modern communication techniques and the implementation of sustainable development .
The second point relates to employment .
Avoiding these questions is to invite serious social crises despite the spirit of optimism currently characterising the economy .
The same applies to the matter of taxation , which you mentioned .
In one of its documents on the integration of financial markets , the Commission itself said that such integration was possible only with a minimum of tax regulation .
This is also true of the Monti package .
These matters are going nowhere , and integrating the financial markets without fiscal regulation at European level is still tantamount to establishing a two-speed Europe .
Finally , in social matters , I do not think it wise , Mr Monti , for the Commission to give up any legislative proposals in matters of employment law .
The new economy also involves enabling workers , in the event of company restructuring or necessary discussions about the incorporation of technological innovations in companies , to proceed in decent conditions .
Madam President , many observers have stressed the fact that the Special Summit was characterised by the triumph of the contentions of Mr Blair and Mr Aznar .
If that means that the Lisbon Summit sanctioned a liberal view of Europe , then I must of course , unfortunately , concur with this analysis .
I cannot however be delighted by it .
I do not by any means wish to allow the current British and Spanish Heads of Government to monopolise the offensive position with regard to the information revolution .
In my opinion , this is indeed a huge challenge which must be accepted .
An annual upturn in investment in people and adopting a proactive policy to promote full employment is something I am firmly in favour of .
This , in my opinion , is the yardstick against which we will be able to measure Europe ' s true ambition and also the true modernity of the left .
Is there anything genuinely new and original about the Lisbon Summit conclusions that had not already been diagnosed and stated in the 1993 White Paper " Growth , Competitiveness , Employment " ?
In the White Paper , the stress was put on " lifelong learning and continuing training " .
Now , and I quote once again , the issue is " lifelong learning " .
I could go on , as there are countless conclusions completely identical to those in the 1993 White Paper .
There is nevertheless one aspect that deserves a particular mention in the area of policies for full employment .
In 1993 , the objective was to halve the number of unemployed in the European Union , from 17 million to 8.5 million .
The fact is that we are now in 2000 , unemployment still stands at 15 million and the summit conclusions promise us rates of almost full employment in ten years ' time .
As one well-known analyst said , Europe ' s leaders have decided on something that they cannot possibly achieve .
To promise , as they have done , ambitious targets for growth and employment is equivalent to announcing an increase in the population or the number of days of sunshine .
We believe that the role of governments should instead be to focus on developing means to enable social and economic agents to generate wealth and to produce positive results in these areas .
Another aspect that is worthy of attention is essentially that the summit appears to have ignored the fact that the countries of the European Union have different historical backgrounds and economic and social structures .
These are disparities which eastward enlargement will only accentuate , and the summit also appears to have ignored the fact that there are still imbalances that even average levels of development cannot hide .
This applies to both positive and negative aspects .
It was with great interest that I followed the European Council ' s summit in Lisbon . There was a very impressive display of rhetoric , chiefly indicative of impotence on a massive and growing scale .
It is , of course , all well and good to have the strategic goal of becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world with a view to creating sustainable growth .
The first problem , however , is that no specific actions of any kind have been outlined which can give actual substance to this ambition .
The second problem is that the social problems entailed and which ( for better and , particularly , for worse ) are a very significant part of actual life in the European Union have been ignored .
The Presidency ' s conclusions talk of " the European social model " .
I am not aware of any European social model .
I am familiar with a number of different models for social welfare , tied to specific national traditions .
In my own country , there is a tradition which differs markedly from the dominant tradition in the European Union .
The real problem is being completely ignored .
This was hinted at in the negotiations prior to the intergovernmental conference , namely the problem of implementing reforms so as to create a European social model .
I must issue a strong warning against doing any such thing .
There is to be a commitment to majority decision-making in this area .
My own country ' s government opposes this , and so do we who are sceptical about this self-fulfilling development within the European Union .
The most significant legacy of the European Council ' s summit in Lisbon is all the unresolved problems .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , Lisbon focused on employment , economic reform and the shift to the digital age .
But Lisbon is not the first summit to discuss the topic of " employment " .
Since Essen , we have had numerous declarations of intent and well-meant action programmes .
The only way to achieve a sustainable increase in the employment rate is to give companies the entrepreneurial room for manoeuvre which they need in the form of framework conditions .
The proposed measures to promote SMEs are confined to analyses and to drafting yet more non-binding declarations of intent .
Paper is cheap .
Unfortunately there is a total lack of concrete results .
A sustained improvement in the employment situation can only be achieved through structural reform , which means reducing the tax burden , simplifying tax systems and making it easier to incorporate a company .
We are all familiar with these requirements .
Everyone says , " Yes , that is quite right " .
But implementation is where it falls down .
As an Austrian member , I must also address the sanctions of the 14 in connection with Lisbon .
The ability to be democratic goes hand in hand with the ability to discuss .
The efforts of the presidency to ban the subject of Austria from the agenda gave me even more food for thought .
It is in the interests of the Union to clarify relations between Austria and the EU .
Refusing all discussion was never a recipe for resolving a conflict .
Many people back in Austria ask me " How can the peaceful house of Europe be built if the highest representatives are not on speaking terms or refuse all discussion ? "
These symbolic gestures are the right way to open up old wounds between people .
I therefore say to everyone who declares that the sanctions are for the government but not the people , that such a separation is not possible .
A democratically elected government cannot be separated from the people who elected it .
This is illustrated by absurd examples such as the taxi boycott in Brussels , problems with school exchange programmes and much else besides .
The distrust shown towards Austria , despite the fact that it has not once violated democratic principles since 1945 stands in clear contradiction to the spirit of this Community .
Judge the Austrian government by its deeds .
You will not find any violation of the spirit of the Union .
( Applause from the right )
Madam President , I wish to welcome the President-in-Office of the Council and to wish him every success in the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union .
To call it the Employment Summit , however , would be to depart from its real purpose .
It is like putting a fake label on a product , which does not match the content .
In this case , it was done out of political expediency .
The truth is that the objective of employment goes far beyond these issues .
These strategies certainly have a harmful effect on economic growth , on the distribution of wealth , and consequently , on employment .
A far-reaching debate on the problem of employment in the European Union would inevitably , therefore , have to address these issues properly .
Madam President , I wish to add my warm welcome and congratulations to the presidency on the successful achievement of the Lisbon Summit .
The key question is how we turn the conclusions of the Lisbon Summit into action ; we must ensure that we turn the rhetoric of Lisbon into a reality .
I shall not dwell too much on the specifics of the Lisbon Summit .
A lot of us have been through that already and we welcome many of the conclusions .
I want to look at the challenges that are inherent in the Lisbon process for Parliament , the Commission and , indeed , all three institutions .
In particular , for Parliament there is a huge challenge in realising the full legislative implications of completing a single market .
There is a challenge in realising the full potential of the e-economy .
There is a challenge for Parliament in playing its part in helping Europe to become the dynamic centre of sustainable job creation , innovation , competitiveness and modernised social welfare .
It is a challenge that Parliament must rise to , working with the other institutions , Commissioner Prodi and his colleagues , and the Council .
If we do not , nobody will understand or forgive us for not realising our aim .
The reason , as I mentioned before the Lisbon Summit , relates to those who are in the gallery with us today - the citizens of Europe .
We have to turn Lisbon into something that means something to them , something to the people in my home town of Wolverhampton .
To me , Lisbon is all about creating a Europe of highly-paid , highly-skilled , high-value-added jobs .
That is our challenge .
In conclusion , I thank the Portuguese presidency very much .
I thank the President-in-Office , the Minister and , in particular , Prime Minister Guterres for all the personal effort he put into this process .
At Lisbon the Portuguese presidency gave us the key to unlock a decade of sustained innovation , competitiveness and job creation across our continent .
Now is the time for us as a Parliament , the Commission and the Council to work together to ensure that key is turned .
- ( PT ) Mr President , Mr President of the Commission , Mr President-in-Office , the document adopted at the Lisbon Summit is rather abstract , and this may mean that it is not implemented equitably .
The policy that has been adopted could conceivably result in a high rate of growth , rivalling that of the United States , but it is unlikely to prevent social exclusion or achieve social cohesion and regional balance .
I wish to discuss this problem , which affects fundamental European policies .
The European Council ought to be aware that in Europe today , the lowest per capita income and the highest levels of employment exist side by side in the same regions or countries .
This requires a European employment policy with its own budget , linked to the Structural Funds policy that the European Council does not want to blindly accept .
The Council should also be aware of the fact that there are countries in Europe that are not highly developed , but which are nevertheless prepared for the knowledge economy .
The Council ought to think about this and work towards a real Europe .
This will have a harmful effect on employment and on working conditions - which will deteriorate - and on the environment and town and country planning .
If we are to draw something positive from this , it is the major demonstration by tens of thousands of workers who condemned the growing instability of employment as they marched past the Lisbon Summit .
The Union as such must then simply play the role of coordinator and catalyst , to use the precise word used in the Lisbon conclusions .
This new method also entails the European Council rediscovering its fundamental strategic guidance mission , while allowing the various Councils of Ministers to take the practical decisions and the Commission to prepare and execute policy .
This is the way we may finally achieve more balanced and more democratic European institutions .
The Lisbon conclusions , Mr President , may , however , in other respects , give rise to a number of reservations .
Since there is not much time , let me cite just one : the proactive goal of increasing the proportion of women in employment from 51 % to 60 % by 2010 .
This really is the type of authoritarian attitude which should be a thing of the past .
It is not up to the authorities to say how many women must go out to work .
This is a matter for the interested parties and civil society .
The authorities must simply ensure that housewives receive fair treatment and that personal choices may be made freely .
Mr President , I decided to speak in this debate when I read the truly excellent analysis of the current situation in Europe produced by the European Commission before the Lisbon Summit .
It is true that the Lisbon Summit also represented something of a sea-change in attitudes towards the global society and in particular towards issues like e-commerce .
At the same time there was a tension in Lisbon between the old world of the international socialists and the new world of those who have a slightly wider perspective .
So the city of Henry the Navigator may become the city of Netscape the navigator , a new approach which I thoroughly welcome .
The summit was variously described as a social summit and an e-summit and so on .
Much was said about the economic and social policies that were supposed to emanate from Lisbon .
The reality is that the European social model is now living in London and she is called Laetitia Casta .
She is Marianne , the symbol of France but taxes in France are now so high that she now has to go and live in London despite the vastly increased taxation under Labour .
Very soon now the government is about to raise GBP 16 billion through the sale of the third generation mobile telephone licences as Mr Suominen reminded us .
There is tension around Europe but at the same time I detect a sea-change .
I rarely speak in debates after summits but this is an important one .
I therefore look forward to some genuine action from the European Commission .
It is action not words that is needed .
When I talk about words , I am thinking about words like " bench-marking " and " peer review " .
I am sure there are not many people in this Chamber who understand what bench-marking or peer review means .
Do not worry , it is meaningless .
What actually matters is a light touch on the e-commerce directive , a light touch on telecommunications .
Give people the freedom to use the Internet to their advantage , to their benefit , for social reasons , for educational reasons , for the disabled - all the benefits the Internet can give us .
We do not need the heavy regulatory touch of the past .
Please Mr Prodi , ignore your friends on the Left and stick with the new world not the old world .
It is a question of strategy really .
So what is the strategy for making a success of this incredible economic transformation Lisbon is promising us ?
It is a strategy which is radically innovative .
All those who have endeavoured to tackle the problem of the European economy so far have done so within the context of the old economy .
Guterres decided that the problem was practically insoluble in this context and , rather than having to contend with the deadlocks of the old economy , he decided to circumvent them altogether .
The most basic example is employment .
Europe currently has 16 million unemployed whom it cannot absorb .
At the same time , there are 800 000 highly-skilled jobs in the new economy which cannot be filled due to a lack of skilled human resources .
Some say these figures are set to reach 1.6 million next year .
If Europe does not learn its electronic lessons fast , these unfilled jobs will multiply and the economy will slump .
And even if we do fill these 800 000 jobs , there will still be a further 15 million unemployed .
We do not appear to have solved any problems whatsoever .
However , the new technologies can , with our support , lead to competitiveness and cost reductions in all sectors .
And as all the other sectors become more productive , thanks to the impact of the new economy , they too will create more jobs .
This is the simple yet great idea of Lisbon .
The question is whether this idea will work in practice .
And whether or not it will work in practice depends on whether or not we are capable of a new financial perspective in Europe .
All these years , Europe has been convinced that investing taxpayers ' money into the old-style economy was a waste of time .
This is where all the zero deficits , stability plans and so forth come from .
It is debatable just how much of ECOFIN ' s die-hard approach was totally justified , but perhaps we are now in a position to leave this behind us .
Lisbon may well have shown us how to leave this behind us because , if we are to attain its objectives , we need public investment in the new economy .
We need to build information highways , on which private enterprises can of course then create and run their own vehicles .
However , these highways can only be built by the Member States , by the public sector and by the European Union .
Lisbon will be judged on this , i.e. on whether or not we are capable of integrating the public and private economies in an original and enterprising manner .
Such cynicism borders on candour !
The present situation , which is exceptionally advantageous to employers and the property-owning classes , arises specifically because of the extent of unemployment , the pressure that this exerts on wages and the generalisation of precariousness .
As for the promise to create twenty million jobs in the years to come , this is just as deceitful as it is ridiculous .
Lisbon aroused expectations as far as rectifying these shortcomings is concerned .
We shall measure you by when the financial services internal market is complete and by when the quantity and quality of innovation and its implementation makes Europe the most competitive and dynamic economic area in the world .
Our eco-social market economy model is the basis for our action and we call for it to be developed further .
Mr President , I welcome the Lisbon conclusions .
In fact , seen from the perspective of employment and social policy and against the long procession of summits which preceded it , Lisbon stands out along with Luxembourg in terms of the potential it offers us .
I stress the word " potential " because , as others have said , we now need to look at the follow-up .
Partly that follow-up is institutional .
Also , we are told that each spring the European Council will consider an overall report to be produced by the Commission that will deal with structural indicators to be agreed .
We wonder who will agree those structural indicators and just how strong the synthesis report to be produced by the Commission will be .
What will the role of the Commission and this institution be ?
Will it , in fact , be largely intergovernmental ?
If so , I think we will be disappointed .
But we are not just concerned about the institutional follow-up .
We are also concerned about the substance .
What proposals , for example , will the Commission come forward with by June this year on social inclusion , as it was challenged to do in the Lisbon conclusions ?
Further than that , how quickly will the high-level group on the future of social protection begin to move into the realm of a convergence strategy for social protection that this House has called for ?
So we are concerned with the substantive follow-up as well .
One point disappoints me - that is the stance of the EPP in all this .
It is trying to pretend that it welcomes the outcome because it is largely liberal and concentrates upon the liberal market aspects .
It should be honest and say that , like us , it has always supported a social market economy .
We welcome the emphasis upon the smooth and efficient functioning of markets .
But as always we want that to be balanced by solidarity and social inclusion .
I hope the group has the political honesty to accept that it continues to support that point of view .
Clearly this will all have to be coordinated and we will even have to go further in laying down the new regulations or restructuring the existing legislation .
Improving quality must not only be directed at Community legislation but also at the legislation of the Member States .
We must review the ' Best Business Impact ' initiative .
Throughout the whole of this exercise , we must take account of the interests of the consumers and the interests of the environment , and these are complicated tasks .
Returning to simplification , the SLIM initiative requires a complete revision .
We need a clear programme . We also need this programme to be applied on a national level , where there is still a lot of ' gold plating ' of directives when they are transposed .
We need expiry clauses and we need to improve codification .
Codification is currently too cumbersome an instrument , too ineffective , and therefore we perhaps have to reform the Treaty .
We have to tackle that reform of the Treaty .
Lastly , we have to regulate more quickly and be more effective .
Since we are in the Internet era , we have to take account of the fact that , in Internet terms , a year is equivalent to three months at the most .
Therefore we need to make improvements in that respect as well .
There was particular emphasis at this summit on the European area of research and innovation , following the excellent communication from Commissioner Busquin .
This is a domain of severe under-achievement in the European Union .
We need deeper knowledge in science and technology .
The sixth framework programme will be another tool .
As well as deeper knowledge , we need wider knowledge .
We need people who have been disenfranchised in the areas of science and technology - women , older people and particularly those suffering disadvantage - to be on board in the quest for this wider knowledge .
We need to use the knowledge in better ways .
Of course , we need new products and we need new processes and we need new ideas about how our society should be run .
We also need new sustainable technologies .
The European Socialists are fully behind the leap forward which is possible given the cogent analysis that took place at the Lisbon Summit .
Mr President , many commentators have drawn adverse comparisons between the European Union and the old Soviet Union . Both have been profoundly anti-democratic , both have seemed opposed to enterprise and wealth creation .
At the Lisbon Summit it appeared that the EU had rediscovered a commitment to enterprise .
Although I have some reservations about references to the social market in the EPP resolution , I am happy to support it .
Let us hope that it is carried into effect and is more than mere soundbites and press releases .
I have no doubt that she was prompted by the best humanitarian intentions .
She was attacking nothing less than the foundations of western capitalism , the engine which has delivered wealth and success undreamed of by earlier generations .
This goes beyond socialism , this is pure Marxism .
It may have been appropriate for the Kremlin in the 1960s but it is totally out of place in 21st century Europe .
It is typical of this Parliament that we call for an end to unemployment yet we promote actions that have the opposite effect .
Her remarks fit this depressing tradition perfectly .
However , Mr Gama , all such conclusions have one drawback in common : they cannot change the world overnight .
We know how difficult the real world is and how difficult it is to get the European Union to agree on a strategic objective .
Nor do we want to copy the social aspects of the American model .
Congratulations , Mr President .
Mr President , I have to say that I have listened to this debate in increasing amazement , especially when I hear the socialist group talk about our resolution .
It appears that the socialist group only wants to hear one-sided applause and praise about everything which took place in Portugal .
We too would like to congratulate you , Mr Gama .
There is a certain likeness between you and your distant predecessor Vasco da Gama at Cape of Good Hope .
The employment situation in Europe seems to be slightly improving .
As far as this is concerned , congratulations are in order , also for the fact that many fine promises have been made .
It remains to be seen whether they will materialise or not .
This is not so evident as the Summit is remarkably opaque about this , especially if we consider the three most important Prime Ministers involved .
First of all , Mr Blair . He makes enough noise but is destroying the British industry by setting the exchange rate for the pound far too high .
The French government is drafting a definition of social policy which implies that nothing should change and , as such , will run into problems with this social policy . This is a problem too .
Finally , there is Mr Schrder , who does nothing at all , so we can be very brief about him .
Mr President , in a situation such as this , surely it cannot be expected from the Group of the European People ' s Party and European Democrats that we come up with a ' hurrah ' resolution .
It has taken socialists a very long time to get this far and we are pleased that they are nearly there .
We also hope that they will implement it efficiently .
Unfortunately , we have not yet seen any evidence of this .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the report to the European Parliament on the results of summits is always an experience .
Has the Council still not learned how little its political promises are worth when it then fails to implement anything and trivial matters are blocked in the Council for years ?
Has the Council still not learned that we never solve any problems in Europe because we keep shifting them to European level ?
Can the Council really back out of its responsibility in the individual Member States so easily ?
As the European Parliament , we should not accept this .
The right model for successfully meeting the challenges of globalisation is competition for the most successful economic , employment , research , education and social policies , not European dumbing down .
Who , if not Europe with its different traditions and cultures , can find an answer to this , provided that we leave responsibility for problem solving where it belongs , namely with the Member States ?
It makes no sense to define European targets for economic growth if we do not remove barriers to growth at Member State level .
It makes no sense to unify education policy at European level if we still have countless problems with arrangements for recognising diplomas .
Even the desire to connect all schools to the Internet is not a question , which should be dealt with at European level .
It needs to be done locally .
As a member of the Committee on Budgets , I warn you against doing this with European funds from the European budget .
Lisbon missed its big chance to really improve things substantially for the citizens of Europe .
Instead , all we heard were pipe dreams which can never be checked and for which the Council is responsible in the Member States , not at European level .
In the end , people will take their leave of such a Europe .
We must not allow that to happen .
Mr President , I believe in a common strategy which must be monitored from within Europe .
I think that the Lisbon Summit has given us a new impulse in this respect .
This is important and these are aspects which one would expect from a Summit .
The e-commerce document springs to mind , for example . This is an existing document .
Another example is the intention to draft a legislative frame for pension funds . This intention was formulated a long time ago .
In addition to the positive aspects of summits such as these , I would also like to make room for some criticism .
The press now writes that the most important element of the Lisbon Summit was that it actually took place , nothing else .
This is very serious .
The content of the Summit was not bad , but faith in subsequent action is evidently ebbing and this is a very serious matter indeed .
I would like to list three elements which are lacking in my opinion .
Firstly , fiscal integration , which has been talked about for so long . In order to take action in the economic field , fiscal integration is required .
Secondly , social security . There should be a convergence programme , a kind of guideline for social security .
Finally , I do not share the view of the British Conservatives and I would like to make this quite clear .
It is important to point out that , within the Group of the European People ' s Party and European Democrats , there are also voices other than these .
Mr President , few words are needed to conclude this debate , for the debate itself has been extremely clear and detailed .
To return to Lisbon , the debate was intense and passionate because it touched on tangible subjects of major concern .
However , we must be clear on one point : although we did talk in Lisbon of the new economy , we cannot divide the economy into a new economy and an old economy .
Europe is like a huge seed , and its economic strength lies precisely in its tradition of operating in all sectors , both new and traditional , and excelling in the traditional sectors .
Now , the spread of new technologies , which we call the new economy , acts like fermentation process , completely transforming the old economy . This is its strength .
E-commerce is not a separate end in itself . The Internet and the other new tools cannot be regarded as a separate factor , but they can be translated into an enormous increase in the productivity of other sectors .
This begs another comment on Lisbon .
I have observed some differences of opinion over the role of Europe and the roles of the individual States .
You must understand that this is a network .
This is the importance of these Summits : if we unite in our action , we multiply its efficiency .
This is the potential significance of Lisbon .
My final point is , once again , the development of human resources .
This applies to both new and old economies as well .
European investment in human resources is still low , and this is a huge area in which we must make up lost ground .
I feel that the goal of halving the number of 18-24 year olds who attend neither a school nor a training course is both realistic and of paramount importance .
This is clear evidence of a development block , which is due precisely to the failure to exploit our human potential .
In Lisbon , our policy-making action was focused mainly on this issue , and certain major horizontal decisions were adopted which engage both public opinion and our own imagination .
Somebody mentioned the fact that the mobility of teachers and researchers was also discussed in Lisbon . This gives me great pleasure for few people remember it .
Well , for this to occur at European level is revolutionary , although our task now is to set regulations in place to make teachers and researchers effectively mobile .
This is such an unprecedented idea to emerge from the fertile European intellectual climate that , if it succeeds , it will genuinely be a great leap forwards for the productivity of Europe and the European way of thinking .
In my opinion , these are the genuinely important horizontal decisions adopted in Lisbon .
Finally , we need a little bit of luck as well , for perception of this recovery is necessary for all these initiatives to be effective .
If we take into account the macroeconomic stabilisation referred to by President Gama , we have the genuine possibility of a sustained period of growth .
In Lisbon , we laid the foundations for exploiting this period of growth : now it is up to us to make sure we build upon them .
Thank you very much , Mr President of the Commission .
I have received eight motions for resolutions pursuant to Article 37 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure .
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon .
The debate is closed .
EU - Africa Summit ( Cairo , 3 and 4 April 2000 )
The next item is the Council statement on the EU-Africa Summit held in Cairo on 3 and 4 April 2000 .
.
This ensured that all issues of common interest to the European Union and Africa were addressed , and on an equal footing , since both sides had the opportunity to express their concerns and also their common objectives .
In this context , all issues covered by these concerns and objectives - economic , political and development issues - were discussed in a frank and straightforward way .
I would like to highlight some significant measures adopted by the summit .
The commitment to reduce world poverty to half its present levels by 2015 was reiterated .
This report will then be studied at ministerial level , under the summit ' s monitoring mechanism .
In the area of good governance and the rule of law , both parties demonstrated their commitment to adopting specific measures to prevent and combat bribery , corruption and nepotism .
Concern was also expressed about the harmful effect on development of military expenditure , which is constantly increasing .
Other important issues such as education , AIDS and the environment were addressed under the theme of development , with the understanding that these are essential elements of the challenge of sustainable development in Africa and of eradicating poverty .
One fundamental area of dispute between Europe and Africa is returning stolen or illegally exported cultural goods .
Some progress was made on this issue too .
The bi-regional group of senior officials will prepare a report for assessment at ministerial level of the viability of taking further action in this area .
The last part of the action plan concerns the monitoring mechanisms .
Mr President , the holding of the summit was in itself a success achieved after considerable difficulties .
These difficulties - mostly of a political character - remain and need to be tackled by Africa and Europe , both separately and jointly .
The summit was the first encounter at the highest political level between Africa and the countries of the EU .
It will add a new strategic and global dimension to the existing relationship between Africa and Europe and will bring that relationship to the same level as that we already have with Asia and Latin America .
The EU already has a deep and broad relationship with Africa , notably in the field of development , where that relationship is unique and backed up by substantial finance .
We are spending development assistance money at the level of EUR 2.5 bn per year .
For our part , we have done what we should do and more if we look at the HIPC initiative to help the highly-indebted poor countries .
Here the EU is still waiting for a number of G7 countries to play their part .
We want to see the African countries as equal partners in the 21st century - the first century they are entering as independent states .
The summit provided an opportunity for useful discussions on debt and other bilateral problems .
It also provided an opportunity to underline the need for Africans to participate actively in the WTO process and to seek support for the Community 's approach .
It was possible for the EU to tackle politically sensitive issues , such as good governance and human rights , with African leaders at the summit .
Other difficult questions , such as the question of the return of cultural goods , were also discussed .
The declaration and plan of action adopted at the summit take account of the sensitivities on both sides .
Internationally recognised principles , in particular human rights , are respected and clearly reflected in the declaration .
This is important to note in view also of the very few statements made during the summit that deviated somewhat from this general consensus about the basic principles that we and others take for granted .
It is regrettable that the civil society forum could not take place in Cairo but representatives of the forum were received in Cairo in the margins of the summit .
The text adopted in Lisbon by the forum was widely distributed by the Algerian and Portuguese presidencies .
The Commission will endeavour to make a success of the meetings of the bi-regional group to be held at senior official level .
Our view is that the follow-up to the summit should wherever possible be pursued through existing mechanisms .
The background is that we already have a credible working relationship .
With the new EU-ACP Convention being successfully concluded a few months ago and with the EU-South Africa cooperation agreement now being implemented as planned , we have two very important additions to the MEDA cooperation and the Barcelona process .
This means that we have not only the perspective of this Cairo summit but also a well-established basis to continue , widen and improve our daily work .
At the very least , the two Co-Presidents of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly could have made statements and this would have given an EU-African balance .
The final Cairo plan of action is an excellent document if we can now turn words and good intentions into concrete actions .
For these ideas to come to fruition , African countries themselves have to make the effort towards good governance .
We have already seen some good election results .
Let us hope that we can see the same happening in Zimbabwe , Ivory Coast and Togo in the forthcoming elections .
The top priority of regional cooperation and integration should have strong political benefits as well as trade ones .
With only 6 % of African trade being carried out in Africa there is huge potential for an increase in trade if tariff barriers and trade barriers are removed .
Many of these countries will need both time and financial help to compete in the world market , but these countries must understand there is no other option in this new era of globalisation .
This is all unattainable without peace and peace-building ; conflict prevention , management and resolution must be top of the African agenda .
The OAU must be given international support to continue its work and the peace initiatives must come from the African countries themselves .
Where peace is achieved , help must be given for demobilisation and reintegration , and the use of child soldiers below the age of 18 must be banned .
Ethnic cleansing has been the horror of the last 25 years , and religious wars destroy the very fabric of a country .
Peace can bring prosperity .
The main thrust of our aim therefore must be better education leading to better health care .
Through AIDS and malaria , Africa is losing the very generation it needs to build its future .
This summit was a start but much has to be done to turn words into reality , and we , Members of this House , must be part of that new world .
Mr President , I appreciate that wide-ranging coverage of the issues by Mr Corrie .
I would like to concentrate on my view that poverty eradication in Africa must begin with children and the realisation of children ' s rights .
The Cairo summit will be followed up by another forum in Dakar on basic education .
The need for basic education is the single most important cause of global poverty .
Therefore , we need to ensure that girls in particular have equal access at least to educational advantage .
We can see that education will deliver , it will stimulate the economy , it will offer opportunities to control population and increase health awareness .
Dakar is an opportunity to deliver on internationally agreed targets .
The EU should put its political will behind universal primary education by the year 2015 .
Clearly commitments made a decade ago have not materialised .
Africa is falling deeper into mass illiteracy and poverty and being further marginalised from mainstream developments in the economic and democratic fields .
In sub-Saharan Africa more children are out of school now than a decade ago .
40 million African children today are not attending school .
One third of the classrooms in Africa do not even have a blackboard .
They have no toilets .
70 % of their schools do not have any clean water .
Julius Nyrere , one of Africa ' s most famous teachers , in those post-independence , optimistic days , said education is not a way of escaping poverty , it is a way of fighting it .
Some of you may be aware that Julius Nyrere spent his spare time translating Shakespeare into Swahili .
But that man ' s wonderful dreams were lost .
He lived to see one third of African men illiterate and two thirds of African women .
I urge the Commission and the Council to make the link between poverty eradication and basic education .
The benefits for us all will be seen in increased child life expectancy , cuts in population growth and improvements in farm production .
We have the blueprints and I urge all of those with the political will to take action , to deliver for the children of Africa .
When , however , one learns that it took four years to arrange it , then this is not perhaps so extraordinary .
Will anything come out of a meeting of this kind ?
Well , that probably depends upon how you look at it .
But nor do I think that one could have expected it to . That was not , of course , the purpose of the summit .
The purpose of the summit was to open a dialogue between the EU and African countries .
That dialogue was in fact initiated , and it is safe to say that , at times , it was fairly unrestrained with its demonstrations and its wrangles or , in any case , point-scoring .
I believe that the final document will prove to be an important reference point in connection with further cooperation between the EU and Africa .
Whether or not concrete results will be achieved in this way will depend , of course , upon the political will we show in the future .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the Cairo Summit gave rise to great expectation among African countries , particularly among those which hoped to see their debt cancelled .
Europe ' s response to this was to say that it was too great a call upon its own resources to move towards the complete cancellation of the debt .
On the contrary , we affirm the political need to restore balance in the relations between African and the European Union .
This would enable us to pursue relations on a sounder basis .
And the Members of the European Union must stop lying .
We are asking African countries to respect democratic principles , but we are perpetuating antidemocratic practices in order to guarantee our own financial interests , in the style of Elf or Total , in a number of countries .
We are asking African countries to accord women a larger place in society , but we ought to begin by establishing parity in our own countries .
Need I remind you that some European Union countries have less than 10 % of women members in their national parliaments ?
We expect the African countries to observe cease-fires , but we are fanning the flames of conflict with our arms exports to belligerents .
But none of this is the key issue .
For how can one expect a country in which a quarter of its young people are dying from AIDS every year to have a booming economy ?
Once again , as we have already said , the European Union and the Member States must make their actions consistent with their statements .
For , while we are hesitating , while we are shilly-shallying , while we are discussing , Africa is dying .
Mr President , first of all I would like to emphasise that I consider the fact that this summit has been held to be extremely positive .
But we also feel that the results of the summit fell considerably short of what was possible and indeed desirable .
Indeed , the conclusions do not strike me as being adequate to address current needs and opportunities .
This is occurring because the European Union , which has been consistently and mistakenly withdrawing its cooperation , is being affected or guided in its cooperation with Africa by two fundamental ideas .
This is the route we must follow in the future .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , in the 1960s people used to say Africa was not on the right track , and now , in 2000 , Africa has still not arrived .
And why not ?
Because no destination was established .
Where do you expect to get if you do not know where exactly you are heading ?
Africa ' s initial objective was to achieve independence , with nation states instead of ethnic tribes , and the result was Rwanda , the Hutus and the Tutsis , Nigeria , the Ibos , and Biafra .
The next objective was Socialism , the fair-haired comrades .
Black Africa was supposed to turn red .
The result was famine in Ethiopia , Algeria ' s agriculture destroyed , not to mention Guinea under Skou Tour .
The white man , Mitterand , then offered Africa parliamentary democracy , parties instead of tribes .
The result was a permanent situation of coup d ' tat , even in the Ivory Coast .
The present objective appears to be liberalism , the market , the IMF , the World Trade Organisation .
Even so , on 4 January , the UN found the final solution , or the miracle cure : a proportion of the 800 million Africans would have to emigrate .
They even set a figure : 159 million Africans were to be unloaded on Europe by 2025 .
In the same way that the problems of the inner city are not solved by building towns in the countryside , Africa ' s problems will not be solved by shifting part of Africa to Europe .
There is one word for this solution - protectionism , and there is one instrument for this solution - customs barriers .
This solution has been worked out in theoretical terms , and called ' self-centred development ' .
And , what is more , the new Senegalese President is inspired by this , telling the young people that they should get involved rather than waiting for the billions to arrive from Europe .
In practical terms , Africa will achieve the first stage in growth according to the Rostow model if it protects its agriculture , its livestock farming , its self-employed craft industry , and its emergent economy .
This is , moreover , what we have seen , ladies and gentlemen , with the privatisation of specific key sectors in Africa . For the Africans it was a negative outcome .
Africa does not therefore need either the cut-throat world economy or the economy of world charity , with the Holy Father and the Blessed Jacques Chirac , or the cancellation of a government debt of EUR 300 billion .
The watchword of the solution is customs protection on the African side and , on the European side , intelligent intergovernmental cooperation , of which the Lom Convention was a prime example .
In this respect , the Mediterranean could serve as a test bench for a Euro-African policy which respects identities .
We have proposed an international organisation , with an intergovernmental high-secretariat of the Mediterranean .
This would have its headquarters in Cairo , Tangiers or Tunis . An interparliamentary assembly , like that of the ACP .
I feel that Athens would be the ideal site , or perhaps even a university in Valencia , Montpellier , Nice or Barcelona .
And there perhaps the words of Raymond Loulle would hold sway .
The practical implementation of these Euro-Mediterranean projects , respecting the identities of both shores , north and south , and involving around twenty Euro-Mediterranean states , would open the way to greater ambitions .
It could then be extended to relations between Europe and sub-Saharan Africa .
This is a great project , Mr President , on the scale of humanity as a whole , and humanity needs both Africans and Europeans .
All the more reason not to flood Africa with the unregulated world economy and not to flood Europe with an influx of people .
I disagree with him on this .
Commissioner Nielson also said something to that effect .
I think that the atmosphere is important , but as a basis for reaching sound agreements .
If the agreements are not forthcoming , then a good atmosphere is neither here nor there .
Nonetheless , an EU-Africa Summit is to be welcomed . I also feel positive about the Portuguese Presidency ' s initiative .
This huge continent is still beset with a lack of democracy , war , human rights violations , drought , flooding and chronic poverty affecting large parts of its population .
Mr President , the European Union has over the past 25 years invested a great deal of time and effort in development and cooperation .
It is disappointing to have to state that this aid has not always had the required effect .
In our opinion , we need a new Africa policy , a policy in which democracy and sound management are prerequisites for aid and cooperation .
In return , we can expect African countries to cooperate better at regional level , open up their markets and give their economies a fair chance .
At the same time , Africa needs sound budget management combined with effective social policy , good education policy and sound health care .
Excessive spending on defence or futile projects should be avoided .
Mr President , the African countries have asked us to clear their debts .
This is vital for the poorest countries , especially if these enjoy good leadership and a balanced budget .
But more than anything - as underlined by Commissioner Nielson -we need to treat Africa in an adult manner .
We need to support what works but we also need to dare to speak up if certain things are unsuitable .
We need to support good leaders and good governments , but offer no support to dictators , bad leadership or countries riddled with corruption .
If the Africa Summit in Cairo has led to this kind of realism , then we have created more than just a good atmosphere and we are probably on the right track .
Mr President , the recent Euro-African Summit has given rise to concern , even vexation , but at the same time , it has also given rise to satisfaction and hope .
There was concern and vexation as a result of the way in which the European Parliament remained in the margins of the Summit process , partly due to our indifference .
This marginalisation , and that of the African parliaments , demonstrated a considerable incoherence on the part of the organisers .
It is incoherent to go around preaching good government , democracy and the rule of law while , in practice , ignoring the parliamentary institution which is essential for the realisation of those principles .
However , I said at the beginning that there were also positive aspects to this Cairo Summit which were cause for satisfaction and hope .
There was also satisfaction with regard to some of the tangible results of the conference in areas such as the cancellation of debt , the elimination of anti-personnel mines and the return of cultural goods pillaged by colonial powers .
I am not impressed by the current pattern of African partners requesting aid in order to resolve their problems , as a result of which the European partners merely grant a part of that aid and little more .
We must go much further , much further than mere cooperation with development , which , by definition , is an unfair form of cooperation .
Thus , that world order will have to be more egalitarian , shared , cohesive , democratic and compatible with the values which we in the European Union proclaim as our distinguishing marks .
Mr President , taking this approach , we will vote in favour of the good resolution with which this debate will conclude .
Mr President , except for photographs and fine words , the Africa Summit has yielded very little .
Africa asked Europe for more market access and debt repayment , and got vague pledges in return .
Europe asked Africa to respect human rights more , fight corruption and cease violent conflicts , and got vague pledges in return too .
The solemn declaration of Cairo was signed by governments which are anything but generous regarding clearing debts and opening up their own markets .
Wealthy Europe must grant generous aid to Africa in support of democratic institutions , primary education and health care and must substantially lighten the debt burden .
The African countries need to understand that , without proper government , none of their developments will come to fruition , and both continents need to realise that strict population policy is absolutely indispensable .
On the photographs from Cairo , the African and European leaders may be rubbing shoulders with each other but , in reality , there is a yawning chasm separating the two continents .
Mr President , the first EU-Africa summit was an important event and had a great deal of potential for taking meaningful steps to reduce the marginalisation of African countries .
So it is a pity that a number of things prevented that potential from being fully realised .
Firstly , neither the European Parliament nor the EU-ACP Joint Assembly was invited to participate in the summit .
Secondly , it is very sad that civil society was not able to have a greater input into the meeting .
The NGOs from the EU and African countries took this summit very seriously and it was a missed opportunity not to engage in more meaningful dialogue with them .
Civil society has a key role to play in Africa ' s development process .
Finally , this meeting could have resulted in a far-reaching action plan of concrete actions .
What we have is a plan full of warm words and good intentions but short on firm commitments , in particular on trade issues .
Finally - sadly - commodity prices were conspicuous by their absence from this agenda .
A majority of African countries are overwhelmingly dependent on just one or two commodities for the bulk of their foreign exchange earnings .
Until action is taken to reverse the fall of commodity prices , poverty in Africa will not be properly addressed .
The continent of Africa is ravaged by epidemics such as the AIDS epidemic and by wars that are conspicuous , or sometimes forgotten .
Antipersonnel mines continue to kill innocent people , arms of all kinds proliferate and fall into the hands of child-soldiers .
The number of undernourished people in black Africa rose from 90 million in 1970 to 180 million in 1995 .
The figures speak for themselves .
Time seems to have stood still between the Biafra famine thirty years ago and the one which is once again devastating Ethiopia .
Illiteracy and unemployment affect the vast majority of young people on the African continent .
We must also do away with aid policies , which are equivalent to giving fish to people living on the bank of the river , as the saying goes , instead of helping them to make fishing rods .
The result is there is never enough fish and there are increasing numbers of people fighting over the leftovers .
Moreover , the IMF ordered ultraliberal policies , supposedly for structural adjustment .
These are policies that have never worked anywhere .
Quite the opposite .
I do not know of a single example of a country which made any progress by applying their directives .
We agree that we cannot carry on supporting dictators in the name of Realpolitik .
We must support democrats unreservedly .
From this point of view , what has taken place in Senegal sends out a strong message , proving that Africa is not automatically condemned to conflict , coups d ' tat or tribal warfare .
There is an imperative need for a new policy , based on codevelopment , conflict prevention , and the rejection of the dictates of the financial markets .
Obviously , this necessitates cancelling the 350 billion dollars of debt which is strangling any development in these States .
Finally , Mr President , Europe too made its wealth from colonialism and slavery . Europe thus has a moral debt towards Africa .
Part of our wealth came from the colonial plundering inflicted on Africa .
Acknowledging that slavery was a crime against humanity would be an important gesture .
There is no doubt that the many informal contacts which the Summit created have been useful .
The European Council gave in to the demand of African dictators not to admit any parliaments to the Summit .
But how much more credible would words such as democracy and the interest of the people have been if those people had actually been represented .
In that sense , Cairo was not a Euro-African Summit but more like a summit of lites .
With his statement that Africa does not need democracy but water pumps , Colonel Gaddafi has undoubtedly put into words what many of his fellow dictators think .
It is evident that our political models cannot simply be transplanted .
Africa has to find meaning for the notion of democracy itself .
But fundamental principles , sound leadership , separation of powers , free and fair elections and respect for human rights are not negotiable .
The European Union ' s reaction to violations of these principles is sometimes feeble and often divided .
Take Zimbabwe , for example , where political opponents are being attacked in the run-up to the elections and white farmers are being threatened and illegally evicted from their own land and where Mugabe provokes violence .
What other messages does the Commission need in order to suspend development aid ?
In an interview with The Sunday Times last Saturday , Kofi Annan reproached the African leaders with greed , megalomania and failure to create better living conditions in their countries .
Against the background of Kofi Annan ' s words , the question arises as to whether the people do not consider the organising of solemn rituals such as those in Cairo as a conspiracy among lites .
The international community should not be tricked into feelings of guilt by the African leaders who do not carry any democratic legitimacy .
It is high time that the European Union told the African dictators where their responsibility lies .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , all too often , Africa is seen by Europe as a lost continent , which is why this EU-Africa summit was long overdue .
This event must not be used as an alibi ; it must mark the beginning of a real partnership .
But who notices that here in Europe ?
Africa is the continent most seriously affected by the injustices of the international economic and financial system and the consequences of globalisation .
Governments which have not yet decided to join this move should copy those who have already done so .
Success will only be achieved in the long term by finding points which unite rather than separate us and by endeavouring to reach a mutual understanding and to integrate Africa into the international community of nations .
Nonetheless , it is clear that something may , indeed must be demanded of the governments of Africa when it comes to safeguarding human rights , basic democratic order and the rule of law .
There can be no question of allowing dictatorial rule on the African continent which , as in Zimbabwe now , fosters racism , dispossession and forcible suppression and ousts an operational legal system .
The Lom Convention offers a suitable framework for consultation , political dialogue and , if necessary , the suspension of cooperation .
Still less can there be any question of allowing financial aid and food aid from the European Union to be misused in order to buy weapons .
That is immoral and an important chance to make a move towards reconciliation may have been wasted .
Banning the NGO meeting from Cairo was a most unpleasant side effect .
Mr President , the Cairo Summit has been genuinely significant , an historic milestone . It has been significant in terms of its meaning but also in terms of its lack of achievement .
It is also significant insofar as its conclusions could not have been more feeble .
Mr President , the EU / Africa summit was reported in the press under the headline : Kiss and make up !
Unfortunately a unique opportunity to reconcile different ways of looking at current problems and find a solution was wasted .
First , it is astonishing and highly unsatisfactory that the European Parliament was not included in this allegedly forward-looking conference .
The members of the European Council appear to have overlooked the fact here that the people of Europe are represented first and foremost by this Parliament .
Obviously no one was particularly interested in apprising the African states of this fact .
So it was certainly not a mobilisation summit , as the press described it .
As far as the content was concerned , it is perfectly understandable that the developing countries are interested in seeing their debt burden wiped out , but there can be no question of complete remission with no conditions attached .
We found out at the last meeting of our ACP / EU assembly in Abuja that in Nigeria , for example , which has restored democracy , one of the last dictators diverted several billion euros to private accounts .
One can only emphatically advise the developing countries to prosecute these offences , which are also punishable in Africa , and confiscate the money .
Then some , and it is a great deal , of the money would again be available to repay debts .
We would be able to recognise the good intentions of the developing countries and could then negotiate writing off and ignoring the rest of their debts .
In my view , this is all part and parcel of the good governance to which the countries of Africa have committed themselves if they are to receive more development aid .
This rather flashy and , in fact insubstantial gesture contradicts the resolutions of the G8 summit last year and is in keeping with his departure from the conference .
It does not help matters if , instead of attending working meetings , one prefers to talk to Gadaffi for 10 minutes .
What the topic of conversation was , one may only speculate .
The chancellor of the media , as he is called at home , made his entrance and what came out of the final declaration adopted hours later was obviously a matter of indifference to him .
This is not the way , in my view , to formulate development policy nor is it the way to bring about the urgently needed reconciliation of national development policies .
I think that we , the European Parliament , must continue to denounce these national solo efforts and increase the responsibility of Member States ' governments .
Mr President , it appears that some MEPs here are trying to attribute the problems in Africa mainly to the Africans , while others seem to attribute the blame mainly to Europe and the former colonists .
This seems to be the pattern for the Summit in Cairo too . Some think it is a missed opportunity .
The fact that , for the first time in history , such a meeting has taken place between the African and European leaders is , of course , an historic event .
The fact that contact has been maintained mainly with Latin America and Asia is indicative of the fact that , evidently , there is something wrong with the normal relations between Africa and Europe .
This is true , of course , because very often it is not the Ministers for Foreign Affairs who travel to Africa but rather the Ministers responsible for emergency aid who then pursue their policy from there .
This is as much our fault as it is Africa ' s .
I would like to praise the Portuguese Presidency , because they could have quite easily opted out , or it could have quite easily dragged on for a while longer , but they took the bull by the horns .
No , I am certainly not expecting tangible , huge successes , but what matters is what happened at a deeper level .
Such a step is significant .
It has been stated that we want to make a large contribution and take part in a much more far-reaching debt burden initiative , provided we can link this in with social development .
Mr Nielson is in favour of a complete overhaul of the development policy in which attention will focus much more on social development and poverty , both within the ACP-EU Treaty and within the EU .
You cannot develop the African people from within Europe .
The African people have their own plans and want to develop themselves , but want help in order to achieve this .
A new framework such as this really creates opportunities .
Within this framework , room must be made for conflict prevention .
Ordinary , regular contacts cannot work miracles . They will not bring about marvellous new results , but they are necessary .
I am pleased to hear from the Portuguese Presidency that it intends to ensure that a Summit like this will take place again in the foreseeable future .
They should become the norm .
In a normal relationship , we can be tough and businesslike with each other and we can adopt a result-orientated policy .
I would like to add one more point .
I hope that our budget for 2001 - and the Commissioner is only too aware how heavy this weighs on me , because I am the budget rapporteur for that component - will also accommodate some of these promises .
Apart from in this final note , I made my contribution on behalf of the entire Group of the Party of European Socialists .
Mr President , ordinary people in most African countries are poorer today than when their countries became independent .
Poverty , therefore , is a disease inflicted upon innocent populations by evil dictators , greedy and corrupt politicians .
Natural disasters , including climate change , have aggravated the problem .
The Touareg in the desert in northern Niger , the Makonde in Tanzania or Mozambique take their families and put their meagre possessions in a little basket if they wish to move .
They are poor , insecure and exposed to the elements .
They have no water , sanitation , energy , medicine , education or reliable shelter .
Such desperate people cannot think of democracy and human rights in the way we do from our houses and leafy suburbs in the West .
They have no stake in their village , regional or national economies .
Such rootless people , desperate people , are easy prey to evil political manipulation , and that is why we see so much conflict and civil unrest in those countries .
We here in this Assembly offer these people open and free access to our EU markets .
We invite them to be part of the global economy , so that they can come and sit at the tables in Seattle for the WTO discussions .
They cannot even market it in their own countries let alone sell it abroad .
So I suggest , let us teach them to be self-reliant and independent , by teaching them the means to grow and harvest what there is in those countries .
Let us give them the technology transfer that makes sense , before we say our markets are open to them .
.
( PT ) Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to thank you for your speeches , which will encourage us to pursue this European Union policy on Africa .
I would like to clarify a few points .
Firstly , the question of linking parliamentary bodies , such as the ACP-EU Joint Assembly and the European Parliament .
As you will be aware , this summit was negotiated with another party : it was not imposed on them , nor could it be .
It was not a summit involving the European Union alone .
Well , let it be said that there were even problems in including references to the ACP group in the final conclusions .
Why was this the case ?
Firstly , because this was seen as the first major rapprochement between Africa and Europe and not all Africa ' s countries are ACP countries .
Secondly , the ACP group is not a purely African group . It also covers the Caribbean and Asia .
My only regret is that attendance is low , but it is nevertheless of an extremely high calibre .
We have held lengthy discussions on this summit and on the fact that its effectiveness rested on two pillars : one is the European Union , and the other is the OAU .
And the OAU , for its part , does not have a parliament .
And nobody can understand anything about relations with Africa unless they grasp the fundamental point that Africa is out there and has its own opinions and ideas on issues .
Let us not try to insist that all our ideas should be automatically accepted and included in the negotiations just because they are ours .
Another important point is debt .
We must not forget that there is a qualitative difference .
This will make a major contribution to stimulating their economies in the context of uneven trade liberalisation .
This is unprecedented and has never been done by any other group of countries .
It is extremely innovative and is greatly welcomed by these countries .
Confirmation of these principles at the summit was generally well received by the African countries .
The summit is not an international financial organisation .
The problem of reducing or cancelling debt could not be solved at the summit .
This represents a complete U-turn in this area .
It is the first time that the European Union has agreed to discuss the problem of their indebtedness with all the African countries , in an institutional framework outside the international financial organisations .
The African countries considered this to be one of the most important milestones of this summit .
It was time to put right this delay .
And therefore , with the cooperation of Commissioner Nielson , the Development Council held in Lisbon in January was , for the first time in history , devoted to EU-Africa relations .
It had never been done before .
It was the first time .
It was an excellent piece of work , which furthermore was reflected , and rightly so , in the results of the summit .
We also finalised negotiation of the ACP agreements for the second Lom Convention and we finalised the free trade agreement with South Africa .
We are also working very rapidly on the Barcelona Process and on African participation in the framework of association agreements seeking to create a free trade area by 2010 .
It was necessary to hold a summit with this scope , on this scale and which would target these goals .
We took that step .
The situation of conflict , poverty and disease requires the European Union to boldly accept its responsibility .
It is also essential for the European Union to have an African agenda .
We , that is , Parliament , the Commission and the Council , are all working towards this .
Let me refer to some of the specific points made in the debate .
Mrs Kinnock mentioned the forthcoming meeting in Dakar on basic education .
We are doing much more than I had expected and I would be happy to inform Parliament about the portfolio of primary education activities in which we are involved in Africa .
This is not to say that we could not do more but it is much better than the picture in general .
Secondly , with reference to Mr Rod , who said that the longer we discuss more people will die of AIDS in Africa , I only have five minutes .
I have discussed AIDS in Africa with President Mugabe .
I am not claiming to portray the whole situation in Zimbabwe but this is an important point .
Mr Miranda reminded us of the indirect effects on the budget for Africa of the concentration on eastern European Balkan problems .
In absolute terms , our focusing on Kosovo and other activities has not meant a reduction in what we actually do in Africa .
In relative terms this is the case , but we have been able to shield Africa from direct reductions in the volume of what we are doing .
I appreciate the support from Parliament to that effect .
Mrs Maij-Weggen mentioned that development aid has progressed over the years .
I wish that were true .
If we look at total official development assistance , globally it has in fact decreased .
We are now down to 0.23 % and many governments should and could do more .
Against that background it is a privilege to represent the European Union internationally in this field because we have not been part of that downward trend .
In total numerical terms , it is foreseeable that we will be increasing what we do in the coming years .
This Parliament , our budget , and our activities stand out as a sort of corrective measure to the global trend .
We should be proud of that and we should make the most of it in political relations also .
Mr van den Bos and others talked about debt relief and these problems certainly need a lot of attention .
I will remind you though that most of the EUR 1 billion , which is the EU ' s contribution to the HIPC II initiative , will be directed towards Africa .
We welcome the cancellation of bilateral debt , which is relatively easy to decide politically , the difficult part is multilateral debt .
This is where the EU , as a donor - not directly involved as a creditor - has been able to lend a strong hand .
This is something that should not be forgotten in the on-going discussions .
It may not be enough but it is certainly more than any other group of donors has done so far .
Mr Zimmerling mentioned the problem of Nigeria and getting money back .
This should be part of international economic governance .
Money should not be able to disappear as has been the case .
It was of real importance that the Heads of State and Governments spent two days together .
They got along quite well .
They certainly developed quite well in those two days .
Finally , I would like to take this opportunity to express my thanks for the very good cooperation established with the Portuguese presidency during this substantial effort .
It was very successful and it has been a pleasure working with the presidency .
That concludes the debate .
I have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to Rule 37 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
External relations package
The next item is the Commission communication on the external relations package .
But I would like to focus on two issues touching on external relations and one of those issues in particular .
Briefly though , I will first of all mention our communication on election observation and assistance , which we will now be publishing and which I will look forward to discussing with Parliament over the coming weeks and months .
We have spent EUR 150 million on this important activity .
It is now clearly a first- pillar activity following the adoption of the regulations , which provide a legal basis for human rights and democratisation activity .
As Members of Parliament will recognise , the communication invites both Parliament and the Council to work with us on a more coordinated approach .
It invites everyone to try to learn the lessons of the past . It is a very practical document .
Let me turn to a subject on which I would like to address the Parliament at rather greater length .
My colleague , Commissioner Nielson , was talking a moment or two ago about the EU-African summit in Cairo just over a week ago .
It is true that the President of the Commission , my colleagues Pascal Lamy and Poul Nielson and myself were all confronted during that summit with a litany of complaints about the slow delivery of European Union assistance .
The people making those complaints were very often justified in doing so - not always - but very often .
It is not a new problem , as Members of Parliament will know - particularly Members who have been on delegation visits to other countries .
I have been frustrated at our slow and cumbersome procedures ever since I have arrived at the Commission last autumn .
I want to say once again that this is not a problem created by our staff , who work extremely hard , thin on the ground as they are .
It is a problem which they have been labouring under for a number of years .
The problems of slow decision-making and delivery are both structural and cultural .
Our procedures are old fashioned , they are as I said ' cumbersome ' .
But the traditional legislative approach to Community business is also sometime ill-suited to the fast changing realities in external relations .
This is particularly true for conflict prevention and it is particularly true for crisis management efforts .
We have to make sure that we are ready and capable of acting when action is needed , not six weeks later , not six months later .
We have to do better and we can do better .
Now we have embarked on an ambitious reform of our external assistance programmes , designed to bring a serious improvement in their effectiveness and in their speed of delivery .
We will present our proposals in the next few weeks .
Some things we can do relatively quickly , others will take longer if , for example , complex legal changes are required .
The rapid reaction facility is something that in our judgement we can do fairly quickly if we have the support of Parliament and if we have the support of the Council .
I hope that support will be forthcoming because we have time to lose .
The Helsinki European Council called on us , in the context of development of the Union 's crisis management structures within the ESDP , to set up a mechanism for rapid reaction .
Inertia is only part of our problem today .
We must also be able to combine different tools more effectively and flexibly into a tailor-made mix to suit the particular situation .
The rapid reaction facility responds to these needs .
It is intended to allow us to draw without delay on existing Community resources and expertise to address specific crisis situations , complementing the valuable work already undertaken by ECHO in the humanitarian field .
I am suggesting a mechanism with the following broad characteristics .
First , there are the urgent time-limited operations in situations of crisis or emerging crisis .
Action should not normally last for more than nine months .
Third , as with ECHO , the procedures must be streamlined .
The Commission should mostly be able to act under its own responsibility and if it has to consult Member States it will be on the simplest possible advisory basis .
Fourth , the management of the rapid reaction facility will be the responsibility of a small team , the crisis coordination unit in the Directorate-General for External Relations .
I do not want to build up large structures where people create work while waiting for a crisis to happen .
The added value of the rapid reaction facility is speed and flexibility in Community intervention in crisis situations .
It will help us to overcome procedural hurdles which have slowed us down in the past and it will allow for the combination of several instruments within a single action and for a single purpose .
Now I have heard concerns expressed that we are taking on new responsibilities when we should be focusing our efforts .
I understand that concern , but the rapid reaction facility does not create new responsibilities , it tries to get better mileage out of what we already have .
It builds on existing Community instruments , putting them to concerted use in a new framework .
There is an inevitable , indeed necessary , area of overlap with existing instruments .
I repeat : the facility does not create a new instrument .
It provides a mechanism for drawing more effectively on the existing ones and the overlap is limited by the procedural nature of the rapid reaction facility and the time limit to its interventions .
The facility is a kind of quick-start package .
It will allow us to react in time and if necessary , to take the initiative in urgent circumstances .
In doing so , we will be better placed to put the wealth of Community experience and resources to optimal use in the interest of the Union as a whole .
But rapid reaction facility action is not meant to last longer than absolutely necessary .
That is why the Commission proposes a rather modest budget allocation for the rapid reaction facility : about EUR 30 million for this year and EUR 40 million for subsequent years .
We need to have sufficient funding available to get crisis action started quickly , but we do not want to tie up large resources , which could and should be put to better use in regular programmes .
Similarly we do not want to create a large new bureaucracy which would hang around waiting for the next crisis to happen .
I have dealt with that point earlier in my remarks .
It is not an ideal solution .
My own favourite economist and guru , Jane Jacobs , points out that everything is disappointing in practice .
Mr President , I would first of all like to extend warm thanks to Commissioner Patten for his extensive clarification .
I have a question pertaining to his first point .
As I understand - and I am delighted to hear it - the European Commission intends to provide more structure to the way third-country elections are observed within the European Union .
My question is : will this be a structure similar to that employed in the United States ?
I have always noticed that it is the Carter Institute which is responsible for election observation over there , and it always acquits itself of this task in a very professional and very transparent manner .
The European Union , which may be present on a massive scale , is really lacking such an image .
Could you explain whether you will use this American model as a gauge , because I think this is an excellent example of how things could be done and how they could be done properly ?
The honourable Member has , as ever , made an extremely shrewd observation .
There is an image problem .
It is one we address in the communication .
We want to ensure that what the Union does is more recognisable : it is not just a question of logos or armbands but of the whole presentation of what we are doing .
There is no such thing as European funds , there are European Union taxpayer funds , and it is an important point to remember .
Image is important and we have addressed it in this document .
I hope that if the honourable Member thinks we have not done so adequately , she will let us know .
Mr President , Commissioner .
I concur with Mrs Maij-Weggen ' s question .
Secondly , Commissioner , I should like to ask you when you intend to have at least the basic structure of your rapid reaction facility up and running , because it is also important for Parliament ' s work ?
What sort of timetable should we be working towards ?
Thirdly , Commissioner , not all , but many crises to which we must react can be prevented .
Are you satisfied with the state and development of crisis prevention or do you want to couple crisis prevention to the rapid reaction facility ?
Firstly , on visibility : there is an early paragraph in this pretty lengthy communication which , in my judgement , sums up the problem rather well .
It states that EU visibility is not as ever-present as one would like because of a number of factors .
The first is the lack of a clear EU policy and the necessary instruments to implement it .
The adoption of a CFSP joint action is no guarantee of increased visibility , as people found in Nigeria last year .
Another factor is the participation of the European Union under the umbrella of other international actors .
That has often been a problem in the Balkans , and one with which the honourable Member will be familiar .
In other cases , like Palestine , the lack of visibility was due to insufficient effort with the media .
Then we finish perhaps a shade provocatively : " Unlike the United States the European Union does not appoint retired high-level politicians for this kind of job . "
We have politicians who are actually still in the kitchen feeling the heat .
Maybe we should learn something from that , though I agree that there are some important high-level retired politicians whom one would not want to see necessarily supervising elections .
At which point discretion is the better part of valour .
Secondly , as far as the rapid reaction facility is concerned , I want to see this up and running as quickly as possible .
I have enough anecdotes to justify my impatience .
I have no doubt at all that our " energy for democracy " programme , which I mentioned in my remarks , has been an extraordinary success .
The mayor of one of the towns which has benefited wrote last week to his colleagues in the Serbian opposition making that point .
We are now looking at what we can do during the summer , now the winter emergency is over , to build on it .
Anybody who thinks that we do not need one should just try talking to our officials who were operating pillar 4 in UNMIK in Kosovo .
Of course , if you can act more rapidly , you make a contribution to crisis prevention .
It is one of the oldest saws in the book that it is incomparably more expensive to fight a war than to keep the peace .
Very often what is required to keep the peace or to prevent a crisis is not just doing things generously but doing them quickly and generously .
There are a number of things we will be doing .
I look forward to coming to Parliament with some further ideas over the coming months .
Mr President , Commissioner , you have spoken of the lengthy payment procedures which have an adverse effect on the image of the European Union in the various actions it takes .
We are currently in the middle of a conciliation procedure for the late payment directive , in other words , this is not just a problem in external relations ; it is also a problem within Europe .
The idea is that the late payment directive could also be applied in these areas .
That is an interesting and important point , which I shall follow up .
It is an extremely valuable contribution .
I am also concerned about an even larger issue , which is the amount of time between our commitments and our contracting .
This is a serious issue and I hope we will be able to offer some helpful thoughts about that in the course of the next few weeks and months .
Mr President , I wish to congratulate the Commissioner on the progress he has made on the rapid reaction unit .
I should like to ask the Commissioner a couple of questions .
Secondly , concerning coordination : what will the relationship be between this unit and the European Union special envoys ?
One of the problems we had with Kosovo was not just coordination within the Commission but also coordination among the Member States of the actions they took as individual governments .
What relationship will you be able to have with Member States in order to ensure coordination of their independent activities ?
For a start , it would be nice always to know what Member States are doing .
The High Representative and his colleagues in the secretariat are bending their best efforts to try to achieve that at the moment .
They are trying to explain , for example , to the United States the full scale of what Europe is doing in the Balkans .
We have had problems which should not have arisen because we have not always known in sufficient detail exactly what Member States , as well as the European Commission , are up to .
So we need to work more closely and in a more coordinated way .
That is an issue which the High Representative and I are attempting to take on more positively .
I hope that the Stability Pact conference a couple of weeks ago was a help along that road but we will certainly continue to pursue that issue .
We will keep in touch with them .
I do not think that the sums of money that we are talking about are going to give us budgetary problems .
We can manage EUR 30 or 40 million .
I am looking forward to what is called a full and frank exchange with Parliament on those issues .
I should like to begin by thanking the Commissioner for an excellent exposition of the rapid reaction facility . It is much needed .
I should like to ask him how he envisages disaster relief of the kind that was needed in Mozambique recently - how would this rapid reaction facility liaise and collaborate with Member States ' armies and navies ?
Would he also consider whether he would extend the call for help - if the need arises - to beyond the European Union countries ?
There are different sorts of crises and different sorts of disaster .
The appalling floods in Mozambique were a classic case for intervention by ECHO as a humanitarian intervention .
The growing food crisis in the Horn of Africa is a classic case for the deployment of traditional food aid , albeit with emergency shipment and emergency on-movement through lorries , etc .
It is very difficult to compartmentalise these crises .
Very often you need to use a number of instruments .
For example , we discovered very early on in the Mozambique crisis the requirement for helicopters and the importance of using some military capacities in support of civil-power operations .
What we have to ensure is that there are not any " Chinese walls " between these various operations .
There need to be " Chinese walls " only in the budgetary sense .
We need to make it absolutely clear that we are not using the rapid reaction facility to cut corners in our budgetary practices , which are not justified by an emergency on the spot .
Commissioner , thank you very much for your statement .
I strongly welcome this rapid reaction facility .
It responds to long-held concerns which many of us have had .
You are to be congratulated on the work that you have done .
I should like to elaborate on the point which my colleague Nirj Deva mentioned .
We are not just talking about urgency , we are not just talking about effectiveness of action . The question of coherence is very important .
You have the overall responsibility for external relations from the Commission 's point of view .
I am thinking again of the role of ECHO .
I recognise the case for coherence .
It would be challenging politically , to get up and make a speech in favour of incoherence .
The honourable Member is entirely right about that .
But one has to bear in mind two important facts about ECHO .
ECHO is justifiably jealous of its reputation for delivering humanitarian assistance without political strings being attached and without any political infusion .
For example , you can distinguish very well between the humanitarian assistance which ECHO has given in Serbia and the assistance we have given through the Energy through Democracy programme .
They both help to improve people 's lives made miserable by Mr Milosevic but they clearly have different triggers and slightly different purposes .
Secondly , it is very often the case that what marketing managers would call the deliverables are different .
Very often with ECHO one is talking about food , medicine and blankets .
With our rapid reaction facility one is very often talking about advisors , mediators , observers , customs officials , police officers , and so on .
There are differences .
But I totally accept that there is a need for more cohesion .
It is a considerable advantage that in this Commission the external relations commissioners work together as a team . We are about to start sharing all the programming decisions together .
It has not always been the case in the past .
Mr President , I am sure the Commissioner would agree that writing the report is the easy bit .
The practical implementation is the difficult bit .
When this rapid reaction force actually comes together , will it work in certain cases at a regional basis as well as an individual nation basis ?
There are situations , such as that in the Horn of Africa , which cover more than one state .
The problems in the Great Lakes region cover a number of countries .
It would be useful if you could link these problems on a regional basis and act from that point .
Would the Commissioner agree with that ?
I agree with the honourable Member on that point .
I believe that we should be looking much more constructively at regional solutions in a lot of other areas as well , not least some of our trade relationships with other countries .
This facility has to be used not just on a bilateral basis but in helping groups of countries with what are often common political problems , as well as environmental and other problems .
I just wish to congratulate the Commissioner on his replies .
I am a little upset and worried about his talk of rapid reaction and the refusal of a political infusion into ECHO .
Quite honestly , ECHO needs more than a political infusion : it needs somebody to see what is going on there .
When Mr Deva asked Commissioner Nielson a question on Mozambique and about the delay in getting helicopters there , it was dismissed out of hand by Commissioner Nielson .
That is unacceptable .
We have a situation in Ethiopia where we knew for the past three years that there was a famine coming .
The stores down there are empty .
Where was ECHO ?
Commissioner , why did ECHO not foresee this and foresee that food was needed there when so many people were threatened ?
The Committee on Development and Cooperation and myself have time and time again warned ECHO and the Commission that something should be done about this .
Absolutely nothing has been done .
I shall be setting out the figures for our actual disbursements of food aid in Ethiopia and Eritrea .
I just wish to add two points .
Firstly , I do not share the honourable Member 's views on ECHO : it does a very good job in difficult circumstances .
I want to make this point about the Horn of Africa .
I was a development minister from 1986 to 1989 and I spent much of my time trying to deal with the food crisis then in Ethiopia and Eritrea .
I feel rather strongly that we have managed over the years , despite problems from time to time , to increase our ability to get food and other assistance to people in the most appallingly difficult circumstances .
We have managed to increase our ability to deliver humanitarian assistance .
What we have not done is to increase our ability to make that humanitarian assistance unnecessary in the first place .
There is a food crisis in the Horn of Africa .
So I hope I catch your eye tomorrow in the debate and make some of these points .
I have great sympathy for the problems being faced by Ethiopia and Eritrea .
However , I have to say that I was dealing with these problems 13 or 14 years ago and , alas , much less has happened to the good than one would have liked .
Mr President , on a point of order .
Could you let us know exactly how Question Time is going to be organised now ?
Will questions to the Commission - ostensibly due between 6.30 p.m. and 7 p.m. be taken ?
I can inform you that Question Time will last an hour .
Therefore , we will be working from seven until eight .
The first part , Questions to the Commission , will last 30 minutes .
We will dedicate 10 minutes to each Commissioner , instead of the usual 20 minutes .
Question Time ( Commission )
The next item is Question Time ( B5-0216 / 2000 ) .
We will examine questions to the Commission .
At the request of the Commission , we will begin with the third question so that Mr Patten can answer it .
First part
Question No 34 by ( H-0306 / 00 ) :
Can the Commission comment on rumours to the effect that it is not participating in the work of the new military committee ?
Can the Commission explain the reasons for this non-participation ?
Will the Commission insist on its right to participate ?
The Commission shares the view that its participation in meetings of the Council and all its bodies is part of the EU acquis and an essential element of the European Union institutional framework .
Commission participation is expressly provided for in the Council 's Rules of Procedure , which state that the Commission takes part in all Council meetings , and in meetings of all its preparatory bodies .
Only in exceptional circumstances and on a case-by-case basis can the Commission be excluded from these meetings .
In Helsinki , it was confirmed that the development of ESDP should take place within the existing institutional framework .
This reflects the Commission 's full association with the common , foreign and security policy and its shared responsibility with the Council for ensuring consistency in the Union 's external relations .
Excluding the Commission from work in this area would be tantamount to accepting the emergence of a fourth pillar in the Treaty , contrary to the Helsinki conclusions .
But although the Commission has a right to attend all working structures in the Council , it does not have an obligation to do so .
There are instances where the Commission decides not to participate in a particular meeting , usually because it considers that the items to be dealt with are not of direct concern to it or to Community affairs .
We have agreed arrangements without difficulty to take part in all the post-Helsinki structures , such as the interim Political and Security Committee , with one exception .
We are still discussing arrangements for the interim military body .
Mr President , may I thank the Commissioner for that excellent and comprehensive answer , which goes a long way to reassuring me .
To take a decision structure by structure would indeed create an unfortunate precedent , undermining the acquis communautaire , which is that the Commission takes part in all Council meetings and preparatory meetings .
I realise that the honourable Member is a greater expert on these institutional issues than I am .
It is not therefore surprising that he is holed in one .
The question is whether the choice is meeting by meeting or structure by structure and we have made it gently and courteously but firmly clear what our view is of the matter .
I very much hope that it can be resolved satisfactorily over the coming weeks .
Mr President , if the Council does not agree with the Commission , does that mean the Commission will have to take the Council to the European Court in order to participate in the military committee ?
Secondly , has the Commission drawn any conclusions as to the security implications of its participation in the military committee ?
On the second point , if I may be slightly irrelevant , the history of the last fifty years does not suggest that it is bodies like the Commission which usually are a problem in that regard .
I certainly do not think that is an issue .
There is a general issue about security , which I know the High Representative is addressing and rightly so .
I hope that we do not have to resort to the sort of measures suggested by the honourable gentleman .
I hope that we can solve this in a civilised and sensible way .
I repeat , we do not have - to borrow a phrase - " ideas above our station " .
We are trying to follow the terms of the Treaty and to do so only when it is helpful to the overall implementation of a common foreign and security policy .
Thank you very much , Mr Patten .
I believe we have asked you all the questions we were going to ask you today .
We therefore wish you a good afternoon .
Question No 32 by ( H-0293 / 00 ) :
Subject : Ability of dialysis-dependent people to travel in the EU The free movement of Member States ' citizens in the EU is a fundamental right .
One group of people that cannot make use of that right are those who require regular haemodialysis because of malfunctioning kidneys .
When travelling , they rely on being able to obtain treatment at dialysis units other than those they normally use .
This poses a major problem especially during the European holiday period , when virtually all dialysis units scale down their activities and frequently turn away ' guests ' who are passing through or visiting their area .
This severely restricts the ability of families with dialysis-dependent members to travel .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I should first like to refer Mr Arvidsson to Community legislation on the coordination of individual national social security systems .
According to this legislation , persons temporarily resident in a Member State other than that in which they are insured are entitled to health care services if their condition is such that they require emergency treatment .
The persons in question need to obtain an E111 form from their insurance agency and submit it to the institution in the Member States in which they are temporarily resident as proof of insurance .
According to these rules , dialysis qualifies as emergency treatment , provided that the purpose of the visit is non-medical .
It is not therefore up to the Commission to intervene here and to influence national rules on the modus operandi of hospitals and clinics in the Member States .
Many hospitals do not regard chronic dialysis treatment as an emergency form of treatment and may therefore deny dialysis-dependent travellers the opportunity to undergo such treatment at their dialysis units .
Children , parents or young people in families where someone is dialysis-dependent are often very keen to travel .
They work and are given holiday-time , but they are unable to go on ordinary tours .
For such people , going abroad is an international issue and , if the national authorities do not do anything to help , their hopes lie with the EU as an organisation .
Even if it is not possible to intervene on a purely legal level , there may be other options for calling attention to the need to increase the provision of dialysis facilities during holiday periods in the Member States .
For example , more prominence could be given to hospitals which make efforts to provide such facilities , or attractive European prizes could perhaps be announced for those which take the relevant measures .
It has nothing to do with whether someone is chronically ill or an acute case .
The decisive question is whether or not this is emergency treatment and the answer to this question is yes .
On the other hand , the Commission , as I have explained , can only propose or make certain information available here .
The Commission departments have made such information available .
Question No 33 by ( H-0298 / 00 ) :
Has the Commission already received from the Member States applications by producers for chocolate of this kind to be included in the register of certificates of specific character ?
Will the Commission take all necessary steps to give effect to the provisions laid down in the regulation and include chocolate without the addition of vegetable fats among the foodstuffs recognised as guaranteed traditional specialities ?
. ( DE ) Mr President , ladies and gentlemen .
The Commission has received no applications from producers for a so-called certificate of special character for chocolate without the addition of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter .
However , if such an application is submitted , it will be examined in accordance with the procedure provided for in Regulation No 2082 / 92 on certificates of special character for agricultural products and foodstuffs .
If I am not mistaken , the Commission is not considering this option .
I would like to insist on this point because I feel that there is concern among consumers that the creation of the single market is resulting in less importance being attached to product quality .
Mr President , Mr Napoletano , as I said , no chocolate producer has yet demonstrated any interest in this form of protection .
No applications have been filed .
That is the drawback with this variation .
It would only be possible to register the name " chocolate " and issue a certificate of special character under the first procedure referred to .
Registration using the second procedure would run counter to the future chocolate directive , because chocolate is redefined and may contain a certain proportion of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter .
The Commissioner actually answered my question in the second part of his answer .
I am very glad that we finally put this directive to bed in the last session .
We take note of your statement in favour of good chocolate , Mrs Banotti .
Question No 35 by ( H-0307 / 00 ) :
Mr President , I should like to start by saying that I share the concern behind the honourable Member ' s question .
However , before answering your question with the standard legal arguments , I should like to get a political point out of the way first .
This is not a problem specific to the candidate countries of the European Union .
Unfortunately , as you well know , I am sure , the problem encompasses many , perhaps even the majority of countries in the world .
Allow me to tell you what we can do within the framework of accession negotiations .
To get straight to the point , it is not much , but the fact remains that countries wishing to join the European Union have of course undertaken to adopt the Community acquis .
That includes the legally binding regulations for the protection of children .
The most important of these is the joint action to fight the trade in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children , on which a decision was reached on 24 February 1997 .
If this proposal is accepted , it will become part of the Community acquis which applies in candidate countries .
The following programmes are relevant to child protection : first the DAPHNE programme approved on 24 January 2000 .
The countries seeking to join the Union can also join this programme .
Then there is the STOP programme for the period from 1996 to 2000 .
This is a promotion and exchange programme for people responsible for measures to fight the trade in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children .
This programme helps to develop coordinated initiatives to fight the trade in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children .
The Commission will draft a proposal for a new edition of the STOP programme during the course of this year , which will then also be open to countries seeking to join the Union .
The Commissioner showed us where his heart was in the opening remarks .
It was a totally horrendous programme , although I agree social exclusion is a major factor in these dreadful occurrences .
There were children who were being bred specifically to be put into an institution from which they were subsequently sold to people coming into that country to buy babies .
There is also the question of Internet pornography .
Poland is one of the significant countries from which much of this is being broadcast .
It is not enough that we have these small , under-funded programmes .
What are we actually doing in terms of the accession discussions with these countries to make our opinion abundantly clear that this is unacceptable ?
I should like to explain to the honourable Member what my feelings are in this matter , not just the legal aspects .
The whole problem could not have arisen and would not exist were there no demand for this horrendous supply in our rich societies , including in the Member States of the European Union .
The entire problem has only arisen because there are people in our societies who will pay money for it .
In Romania there are no people paying for it .
These people are in this country , the country in which we live , in all the neighbouring countries , in all the countries of the European Union .
Now let me come to Romania .
The subject of children in Romania is , as you know , one of the subjects on which the Commission is most intensively employed , including me personally .
I cannot confirm the accuracy of the BBC television report .
The fact that something has been broadcast on the BBC does not automatically mean that it is true .
Not that I am saying that it is untrue .
Simply that we cannot confirm it .
It is therefore difficult for me to answer your specific question as to whether children are being bred in Romania for the purpose of sexual abuse with a clear yes or no .
I assure the honourable Member that we are doing far more than is our duty and , in fact , far more that what is actually politically permissible within the framework of accession negotiations .
I do , however , admit that we are doing so because , in my view , it is also a human rights issue which must be considered in accordance with the political criteria governing accession .
It is a problem that should be a cause for concern to everyone in Europe .
.
At the same time , the same type of campaign has been funded by the American government , as part of the transatlantic agenda , concerning trafficking in women for exploitation in Ukraine and Bulgaria .
The Commission intends in the course of 2000 to present the European Parliament with a new legal basis for the STOP programme for the period 2001-2005 .
Under this new legal basis for STOP , we will also be able to fund projects for combating trafficking in human beings submitted by non-governmental organisations and by public authorities from the applicant countries themselves .
We therefore acknowledge the fact that under the Stability Pact for the Balkans , priority must be given to combating trafficking in human beings .
Commissioner , thank you for your answer , which I find partially satisfactory as I am well aware of your personal interest in the matter and of the initiatives you have undertaken to combat prostitution rings .
However , Commissioner , we must also admit that the intervention of the EU ' s institutions has been both inadequate and ineffective .
Are you aware , Commissioner , that concentration camps still exist where women are raped before being forced into prostitution ?
European women are particularly concerned as to whether there is any political will to dismantle these prostitution rings , whether there is any police or judicial cooperation and whether any victim support measures are in place .
I am going to ask you to be brief and I am going to be brief .
This is the Rule in this House .
For your information , in Annex IIB ( 3 ) of the Rules of Procedure , there are some recommendations for cases such as this when there is no time for questions .
Therefore , in application of the said recommendations , we will allow just one supplementary question per subject and only 30 seconds , which may extend to 35 , but no more , in order to reformulate the questions .
Question No 37 by ( H-0272 / 00 ) :
Subject : Agricultural budget for foreign policy activities in Kosovo With regard to the budgetary forecasts , will agricultural funds be used to foot the bill for Kosovo ?
Are EUR 300m to be deducted from the items earmarked for agriculture funding to cover the costs of Kosovo ?
Mr President , Mrs Izquierdo Rojo , reconstruction in Kosovo and the stabilisation of South-Eastern Europe are among the most important tasks facing the European Union over the next few years .
This has been emphasised in numerous Council and Parliament resolutions , most recently in Lisbon , and for the Commission , this task does , without doubt , have the top priority which it requires .
The funds required for this task need to be anchored in the budget accordingly .
This task was not included in the Council resolution on the financial perspectives for 2000-2006 at the Berlin summit last spring .
The resolution on Agenda 2000 was taken , I would remind you , on the same day that the war in Kosovo broke out .
It is precisely this call that the Commission is addressing .
The Commission therefore decided to propose a redeployment of EUR 300 billion to the budgetary authority so that the increase in agricultural expenditure would be correspondingly lower .
I hope that , when faced with these realities , Parliament will support the Commission proposal .
The Commissioner confirms our suspicions that Commissioner Fischler is hiding things from us and hiding himself as well . I am not surprised that he left the chamber hardly ten minutes ago because this proposal is shameful .
All of this demonstrates that Agenda 2000 has been nothing but a great firework display .
This is a disgrace for European agriculture .
It does not surprise me that given this outrage the Commissioner responsible ...
This is a disgrace !
A disgrace !
Mr President , I hope I can risk Mrs Izquierdo 's wrath by saying that I agree with the Commissioner .
It would be unacceptable to find money for Kosovo - which I support - at the expense of the very poor in the world .
Does the Commissioner agree with that ?
I should like to thank the honourable Member for his remarks .
I should also like to clarify that it is really not in the nature of my colleague , Mr Fischler , to run off and hide .
Clearly there are new priorities and new tasks and everyone here in this House must suggest how these new priorities can be funded .
The Commission has taken the step for which provision is made in the interinstitutional agreement , i.e. to examine the extent to which funds can be redeployed in the relevant categories and then make another proposal .
We have examined this carefully .
I should like to state clearly at this point that this redeployment will not of course have any effect on income support for farmers .
I should also point out that the Commission will propose that even the expenditure budgeted for promoting and developing the countryside be increased to its ceiling next year .
But I think that it is our common responsibility to find an answer , including a financial answer , as far as the important obligation that the European Union has in south-eastern Europe is concerned .
Question No 38 by ( H-0287 / 00 ) :
Subject : Structural measures to overcome delays in payments The EU budget is failing in that commitment authorisations are not being adequately matched by payments .
Payments as a proportion of total commitments have fallen over many years and barely 80 per cent of commitments , reportedly , are paid out .
One of the reasons for this situation is the delays in implementing the Union 's projects .
The absurdity of this system is becoming increasingly apparent .
Such a situation is untenable , particularly in view of the negative public opinion prevalent in some Member States ?
In the Commission 's view , what structural measures are required to overcome the delays in payments ?
Questions to Mr Kinnock
Mr President , the Commission is doing its utmost to settle proper payment applications within 60 days .
The large majority of invoices can be paid within this period and the number of overdue payments is falling satisfactorily .
However , the honourable Member ' s question obviously refers not only to settlements in the narrow sense of the word , but to the question of how many commitments from previous budget years have yet to be paid .
So what we are talking about is the period of time between the first promise of funds for a project and a specific contract and the period of time between the commitment and the actual payment of funds .
The Commission submitted a working paper to the budgetary authority last year in which it made a comprehensive analysis of developments , broken down by sector and underlying factors , and suggested remedies .
The Commission is currently updating this analysis .
In terms of volume , commitments , i.e. sums that will need to be converted to payments in later years , were around EUR 71 billion at the end of 1999 .
Developments in these old cases are influenced , de facto , by several factors and I think that it is important to make that clear here .
The first factor is the ratio between commitment appropriations and payment appropriations which the budgetary authority applies to the budget every year .
For the year 2000 , for example , the budget contained approximately EUR 4 billion more in commitment appropriations than in funds for payments .
The second factor relates to the take-up of these budgetary funds , i.e. both commitment appropriations and payment appropriations .
However , the Commission is unable to subscribe to the honourable Member ' s view that delays in implementing Community projects robs them of any legitimate purpose ; on the contrary .
This applied to a sum of around EUR 1 billion in 1999 .
I should stress that the time lag between overall commitment appropriations and their conversion to specific projects is a feature of many Union programmes .
The Commission has discussed precisely this today as part of the debate on the revision of the financial regulation and I can assure you that we intend to change the rules in order to tighten up the time scale .
I hope that we can count on your support .
Thank you for your answer .
I am pleased that the Commission really has taken note of the problem and intends doing what it can to ensure that the payments are made more quickly .
Commissioner Patten pointed out a while ago in the Committee on Budgets that , within category 4 , there are eight and a half year-old commitments which have still not been paid out .
Perhaps both these matters are problems which the Commission ought , in that case , to do something about .
I should like to inform the honourable Member that an analysis has shown that it takes approximately one and a half years to convert commitment appropriations into specific contracts .
I should like to offer my warmest thanks for your suggestion .
That is exactly the approach which the Commission will take during the revision of the financial regulation and I am therefore sure of at least one person ' s support in Parliament .
Do you intend to use benchmarking or best practice methods ?
Of course benchmarking means that no more than 60 days should lapse and , as I said , more and more payments are being settled within this period .
Of course the aim is to have few , if any exceptions .
Thank you very much , Mrs Schreyer .
Since the time allotted to Mrs Schreyer has elapsed , Question No 39 will be replied to in writing .
Question No 40 by ( H-0332 / 00 ) :
Subject : Institutional reform In the Action Plan on Reform it is stated that an ' external legal expert ' should sit in an advisory capacity on Disciplinary boards .
What is the excact definition of this ' external legal expert ' , and what legal expertise will this person be required to have ?
The Commission is at present implementing , or preparing legal grounds for implementing , the different actions set out in the White Paper on reforming the Commission .
In his question the honourable Member is probably referring to actions 57 and 58 of the Reform Strategy Action Plan which , amongst other things , specifies commitment to making proposals for the establishment of an interinstitutional disciplinary board .
The Action Plan does not , however , specify that an external legal expert should sit on the board .
The Commission will be presenting detailed proposals for the modernisation of disciplinary procedures and related arrangements in a consultative document which is scheduled for publication in October .
The document will include recommendations for improving administrative procedures and for making relevant amendments to the Staff Regulations .
I thank the Commissioner for his reply .
. I am grateful to the honourable Member for his question .
Question No 41 by ( H-0342 / 00 ) :
Point 47 of your action plan makes reference to this situation but offers no remedy for it .
How do you plan to address this ?
Are your staff currently examining this problem and , if so , which members of your Cabinet or Directorate-General are actively involved in finding a solution to this contradiction ?
Questions to Mr Byrne
. Mr President , the honourable Member 's question refers to the Commission 's proposals on whistle-blowing in the consultative document on reform adopted by the Commission on 18 January 2000 .
Following that , more detailed orientations were set out in the White Paper on reforming the Commission which was adopted , published and presented to this Parliament on 1 March .
That legal text also specifically guarantees that officials and other servants of the Commission shall , and I quote , " in no way suffer inequitable or discriminatory treatment as a result of having communicated such information " .
It follows that Articles 12 and 17 of the Staff Regulations do not prevent staff from reporting wrong-doing either within the Commission or to OLAF .
In neither case would disciplinary action result from making such reports .
In the White Paper on reform and elsewhere , the Commission has made direct commitments to reforms which will further improve rules related to the reporting of suspected wrong-doing .
These rules on whistle-blowing will be put forward for introduction into the amended Staff Regulations and officials who follow them would not be subject to disciplinary action .
The Commission will present detailed proposals in a document scheduled for October of this year .
As the law requires , consultations on those proposals will be undertaken with staff and with the other European Union institutions .
Preparatory work on the proposals is progressing under the Director-General for Administration .
One member of my cabinet has specialist responsibility for reform of personnel policy , including whistle-blowing , and others are naturally actively involved in the overall issue .
Further to my question , as the Commissioner has just stated , the Commission is now drawing up its " whistle-blowing " charter to a certain extent .
Will this be framed , for example , along the lines of the Swedish Government 's or the British Government 's rules on whistle-blowing ?
Could the Commissioner inform Parliament as to the exact circumstances in which Paul van Buitenen now finds himself ?
Is he still being disciplined by the Commission and has any of his pay which was docked in the past been refunded to him ?
I am grateful to the honourable Member for his question .
Firstly , the development of the proposals relating to whistle-blowing will take full account of best practice in several of the Member States .
As far as Mr van Buitenen is concerned , he took up employment on 1 April in the Directorate-General for Health and Consumer Protection in Luxembourg in a very responsible job , as the House would expect .
He made a couple of applications , one of which was for a job in the Commission .
He was successful in that application and I am pleased to say that he was duly appointed .
We thank Vice-President Kinnock for his replies .
Since the time allotted to Mr Kinnock has elapsed , Questions Nos 42 and 43 will be replied to in writing .
As the authors are not present , Questions Nos 44 to 48 lapse .
Question No 49 by ( H-0284 / 00 ) :
The Swedes have since changed the rules .
However , the Commission has not yet established whether the Swedish authorities are now complying with current EU rules .
In order to be approved for breeding in Sweden , a stallion must undergo an examination of its pedigree to be entered in the Swedish national register .
This must be contrary to EU rules as it is to be expected that a stallion which is already approved in one Member State should automatically be approved in another Member State .
Is the Commission of the opinion that the Swedish authorities are complying with common rules ?
If not , how will the Commission ensure that the Swedish authorities comply with EU legislation in this respect ?
A first-class Danish Shetland pony stallion named Vivaldi and his progeny were denied entry into the main section of the Swedish Shetland pony stud book .
The Commission , following its inquiries , was officially assured that the Swedish stud book rules had been aligned with EC legislation .
However , in the light of new information , the Commission undertakes to take up the case again and to arrange for a zootechnical inspection mission , should this be required .
I should like to point out that what we are concerned with here is an individual citizen whose livelihood has been affected .
It is a matter costing an incredible amount of money .
As some of us who have been involved with the equine trade know , there is a great deal of money at stake here .
It has cost an ordinary citizen , who has made a business out of horses , an incredible amount of money because Swedish associations have not been willing to approve his stallion .
I would therefore ask whether it is once again necessary to make an application in connection with this matter .
Given all the talk currently of the Commission doing something for citizens , might not , rather , the Commission be expected to take the initiative directly ?
I thank the Member for her supplementary question .
As I indicated earlier , this is essentially a matter between two Member States .
The Danish Breeding Association , in my opinion , should have taken up this issue with the Swedish Association .
As I have indicated , in the light of new information , the Commission undertakes to take up this case again and , if necessary , to arrange for a zootechnical inspection mission , should this be required .
The way Question Time is run is not acceptable .
Firstly , it does not start on time .
We had group meetings ; I was watching the screen and you jumped from Question 41 to 49 .
That makes it impossible for Members to be here .
In addition , Question Time did not start at the time stated on the agenda .
How are we meant to function in this way ?
It makes it virtually impossible for us and is not a fair procedure .
Mrs McKenna , today ' s Question Time has been ratified by the plenary in this House .
It was explained this morning at the beginning of the sitting , we have accepted certain rules and we have skipped questions when the authors have not been present .
I am therefore very sorry that we now have to conclude Question Time .
We especially thank Mr Byrne who has been here all afternoon so that he could answer questions .
Since the time allotted to questions to the Commission has elapsed , Questions Nos 50 to 93 will be replied to in writing .
That concludes Questions to the Commission .
( The siting was suspended at 8.10 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m. )
Situation in Turkey
The next item is the Council and Commission statements on Turkey .
.
( PT ) Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , today marks a very important step in relations between Turkey and the European Union , particularly in terms of putting the Helsinki conclusions into practice .
There had been no meeting of the Association Council between Turkey and the Union for three years and nor had there been any meeting of this kind after the deliberations and the criteria laid down in Helsinki .
This was an important meeting with an agenda that included not only relevant points of political dialogue , but also practical decisions which will translate into a step forward in the negotiating process .
By implementing the Helsinki criteria and having made progress in the country itself , Turkey has made significant steps towards these negotiations , which it is important to bear in mind .
It has been gradually committing itself to implementing or to adopting a huge range of institutional and legislative changes .
This is progress in the right direction , progress which is still of course experiencing delays and interruptions , and only seeing the process through will ensure that this progress meets with complete success .
Hence the importance of holding the screening procedure that is being prepared and the importance of Turkey ' s commitment to incorporating the body of Community legislation and also to respecting the Copenhagen criteria .
Today ' s meeting will be followed up at the forthcoming meeting of an association committee , which will study these issues in greater detail .
It should also be pointed out that there was a very constructive approach to the preparations for this Association Council with regard to drafting a joint position , which was adopted by the fifteen members of the Association Council .
This meant of course that very thorough work was undertaken with the Greek delegation too , which is following this issue with a sense of importance worthy of Athenian diplomacy .
The Helsinki resolution brought about a net and lasting improvement in relations between the EU and Turkey .
At last , it is again possible to discuss all issues openly and critically .
Stronger political dialogue is again taking place at all levels .
Above all , Helsinki confirmed that compliance with the political accession criteria was the sine qua non to starting negotiations .
The Copenhagen political criteria concern democracy , the rule of law , human rights and the protection of minorities .
Turkey does not yet meet these criteria , which is why negotiations will not start until they do .
In the meantime , however , Turkey and the other candidate countries will start to benefit from a strategy of rapprochement and stronger political dialogue .
We plan to submit the first accession partnership in the autumn of this year .
The President-in-Office has already spoken about screening and I need say no more on that subject .
I should , however , like to say a few more words about the political situation in Turkey .
I am sure that you will agree that a series of incidents over recent months has given real cause for concern .
For example , 18 members of the pro-Kurdish HADEP Party were sentenced to three years and nine months in prison and three leading members of HADEP were taken into custody but then released shortly afterwards .
The three mayors who support HADEP were released after the EU troika had expressed its serious concerns to the Turkish Government .
I particularly regret that Akin Birdal , whose health clearly continues to give cause for concern , was returned to prison on 28 March to serve his four-and-a-half month sentence .
The Commission seriously regrets that Akin Birdal , an advocate of the peaceful solution of conflict and human rights , has been thrown into jail once again .
I am sorry that the opportunity was not taken to suspend imprisonment on humanitarian grounds .
I think that everything points to the urgent need to tackle reforms in a decisive manner and to ensure that freedom of expression is properly protected .
From an economic point of view , Turkey is in a position to make rapid progress .
It has a clear strategy for structural reform , which is supported by the IMF and the World Bank .
I hope that Turkey can cultivate social dialogue and an active labour market policy still further in order to underpin the adjustment process .
The country has a dynamic economy and a highly entrepreneurial population , which will benefit from a more balanced and transparent growth model based on the EU acquis .
Our relations with Turkey entered a new stage after Helsinki and making progress with the new tasks represents a challenge for both sides .
Of course I shall continue to keep you informed of all aspects of these new endeavours .
Mr President , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , Commissioner , your statements have reinforced a belief and an impression I have .
The public and private sector spokesmen we recently met in Turkey all readily agreed on this .
This is reflected in the distrust shown , as the Commissioner has just reported , towards European institutions in general and the representatives of the European Parliament in particular .
Then , on the same day , at a time when your rapporteur was in Ankara , there was the arrest of three Kurdish mayors from the south-eastern region .
The ball is in Turkey ' s court .
It is up to Turkey to decide whether the first obstacles encountered on this new road are to prove insurmountable or not .
Commissioner Verheugen has just recapitulated these expectations .
It is difficult to discern any further democratic developments during these first four months .
Even progress with the protection of minorities leaves much to be desired and we are somewhat sceptical about the question of the rule of law .
Mr Birdal advocates peace .
Mr Birdal advocates solving the problem of minorities without violence .
Mr Birdal ' s reputation as a human rights activist extends well beyond the borders of Turkey .
Mr President , when Turkey joins the European Union the impact and the benefits will be considerable .
The EU will then have to adjust , and in a welcoming way .
But , in the shorter term , it is Turkey which has to adjust the most , in particular to meet the Copenhagen political criteria .
I am glad the Commissioner stressed these .
Indeed the key to reform is ending the war against the Kurds , which gives the pretext for the state of emergency and the repression that goes with it .
The Kurds deserve a peaceful settlement involving a degree of political devolution and respect for their cultural and linguistic rights .
To say this is not to be anti-Turkish . Will not other Turkish citizens benefit also ?
The arrest and imprisonment of HADEP leaders like Sakharov prize-winner Leyla Zana and human rights campaigner Akin Birdal is an impediment to Turkey 's progress to the EU .
To allow the European Parliament to vote for Turkey 's accession when the time comes , reformers in Europe and Turkey must work together to lobby for change , as the Commissioner advised .
Mr President , the majority of my Group supported the Commission ' s policy on Turkey and the resolution passed by the Council in Helsinki .
It was and is extremely important to us that the candidate status granted to Turkey should bring about fundamental changes to democracy and hence the way in which human rights are dealt with within Turkey .
We were pleased to acknowledge the declaration by the Turkish Prime Minister that Turkey would meet the Copenhagen criteria as quickly as possible .
The decision to defer the death sentence on Mr alan was also welcomed as a step in the right direction .
However , we were then forced to acknowledge a number of incidents which we were and are unable to accept .
The mayors belonging to HADEP were arrested and we rightly criticised this move .
We are pleased that the Turkish Government reacted quickly and the mayors were released but we shall monitor the court case against them .
The former president of the Turkish human rights association , Akin Birdal , is again under arrest , despite the fact that he requires medical care .
Unfortunately , he must serve another six months of a one-year sentence .
We realise that the measures needed to guarantee the permanent democratisation of Turkish society cannot be introduced overnight .
However , a number of small steps are urgently needed in order to demonstrate that Turkey is prepared to take the path trodden by Spain , Portugal and Greece .
Turkey must at last abolish the death penalty , the only country in Europe yet to do so .
And we should not have to wait for a reform policy on the Kurdish question .
Today ' s report from Luxembourg is good news but we would say , nonetheless , that Turkey must realise that respect for human rights and minority rights are prerequisite to any accession negotiations .
We are prepared to be patient as far as the speed of democratisation is concerned .
But we will not accept a standstill on this issue .
In this sense we shall continue to support the Helsinki process .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , whoever wants to join the EU must meet the Copenhagen criteria and abolish the death penalty .
Including Turkey .
Despite frequent promises by the Turkish Government , human rights violations continue there .
I should like to list a few examples . The Kurdistan Democratic Party has been exposed to attack since 20 February .
Three Kurdish mayors belonging to HADEP were arrested recently and then released but are not allowed to leave Turkey .
Then the former and present leaders of HADEP , Murat Bozlak and Ahmet Turan Demir , were sentenced to three years and nine months in prison together with 18 other members of HADEP .
It was maintained that HADEP was supporting and helping the PKK which has opted for peace rather than war .
Akin Birdal has started serving the rest of his sentence .
Thousands of Turkish troops marched into northern Iraq at the beginning of April .
More than 50 000 soldiers are stationed on the border in order to fight the PKK , despite its call for peace .
Why are arms being delivered to Turkey ?
More than 300 000 people gathered for the Navruz festival in Diyarbakir under the banner " Peace , Brotherliness and Democracy " .
Having been there , my personal impression is that the people are longing for peace and democracy .
The leader of the ANAP , Mr Mesut Jilmaz , said at an event in Diyarbakir , that the way to the EU was via Diyarbakir .
I therefore call on the Turkish Government to respect human rights and to find a political solution to the Kurdish question .
Because the only way into Europe is via the Copenhagen criteria .
It will be the task of the European Commission and the Council to strengthen their commitment here .
At the moment , the most important task is to advance the democratisation of Turkey , which is why I call on everyone to unite without hesitation and to reinforce democracy and peace .
Mr President , all of us who have visited Turkey recently realise that the picture is very complex .
The first impression is that there is a sort of EU euphoria in Turkey when it comes to the media .
There is a very lively debate in the country . That is very important .
Secondly , the trade unions , popular movements , etc. all say the same thing .
They think it is positive that Turkey is a candidate country .
We even heard Akin Birdal , on the eve of his imprisonment , say that a new Turkey has been emerging in the last five months .
We must realise that we will have a lot of ups and downs in our relationship and that we will have both progress and setbacks . Perhaps we are seeing something new being born .
But the old legal system is still there . That is what is working against democratic fighters such as Akin Birdal .
But we also see the reformists who know very well what has to be done according to the Copenhagen criteria .
One party leader said to us that at least 65 articles of the constitution and penal code had to be changed .
When we spoke to people in that country during the Socialist Group visit we found three different approaches to EU membership .
First you have the anti-reformists , the fundamentalists and so on , who do not want membership .
And then you have the reformists - within the government , administration , human rights groups and other parts of civil society - who really want it .
They certainly want membership .
Then you have a third group , who say that they want Turkey to become a member , but on Turkish terms .
Here the Copenhagen criteria , and the Commission and our screening are very important .
Almost automatically they will have to deliver if Turkey is to become a member one day .
There are two final impressions and messages received from the people we talked to during the two or three days we were there .
The first was that nothing will prevail without a strong civil society in Turkey .
People we met from civil society also said they appreciated the help from the European Union , but that some of it was slow .
We know that and we would like the Commission to look into that .
The other and last message is that yes , we have the road-map .
But we need more precision from the road-map .
Help us to be more precise with the road-map because we want to follow it .
Mr President , the question of whether or not Turkey belongs to Europe is not primarily a geographical issue , nor is it primarily an economic one .
The deciding factor , however , will be whether or not Turkey will subscribe to a European set of values in which human rights , democracy and the protection of minorities are guaranteed .
This will not require any sacrifices , probably unlike Turkey ' s other issues , but it will be for the good of all inhabitants of Turkey itself .
The political solution to the Kurdish issue would not only liberate the Kurds , it would also take a heavy weight from Turkey ' s shoulders .
As a matter of fact , I am of the opinion that we should not aggravate the situation by supplying arms .
I myself am sceptical of Turkey joining the EU , but the current process may well promote peace and stability .
This is why we want to give Turkey the benefit of the doubt .
Whether or not Turkey will join may therefore depend largely on how it will fare in matters pertaining to human rights , democracy and the protection of minorities .
I would like to ask both the Council and the Commission to see things as they really are and not as they appear to be .
I should like to point out that in Helsinki , Greece withdrew its reservations and Turkey became a candidate country .
Greece has made a great many gestures of good will and good neighbourliness , a great many . Turkey has made none .
I just wonder who have they been trying to liberate for the last 25 years , and from whom ?
Have they still not managed to do so ?
I would point out that , when we visited Turkey as Parliament ' s representatives , we asked to see Leyla Zana .
We were not allowed to see her because she was in prison .
Akin Birdal , who held talks with Mr Barn Crespo , was taken into prison while he was standing outside .
I just wonder if the Commission ' s regrets will help to get Akin Birdal out of prison tomorrow ?
Is that such a drastic step ?
Today , Mr Cem dismissed the list as media hype ; but , at the end of the day , Turkey does in fact reserve the right to publish lists of persona non grata .
Mr President , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , Commissioner , I was a member of the delegation from our Group which visited Turkey .
I do not want to recount my experiences at length , I just want to tell you what my impression was .
Commissioner , you mentioned the interministerial committee .
It is true that numerous structures are being set up .
I have been aware of this in Turkey since 1995 .
If they are obliged to comply with something , they start by setting up committees and commissions , interministerial , extraministerial , every sort of committee under the sun .
The structures are superb , we can all agree on that .
Except that they do nothing .
That is how easy it is to take the first steps .
The Turks tell us they need time , they need a great deal of time , because this reform can only be achieved one step at a time .
I warned you about that .
Mr President , Turkey was granted candidate status at the Helsinki Summit , but accession negotiations must go on hold until the necessary internal reforms have been introduced and the human rights situation complies with European principles .
The unequivocal shortcomings in this area contrast with statements by Prime Minister Ecevit to the effect that Turkey may be ready to start accession negotiations in 2004 .
A number of factors which have been listed here several times already make this sort of prognosis appear premature .
The fact that all this has been accompanied by a recent offensive against the PKK in northern Iraq only adds to this impression .
This demonstrates in retrospect that the concessions made to Turkey in Helsinki were perhaps premature and that the strategy towards this country , which is so important to western security , needs to be reviewed .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I have visited Turkey three times in the last six months , once before and twice after the Helsinki resolution .
I experienced surprise after surprise and also disappointment after disappointment .
The situation is in fact as a number of fellow Members have described it .
It is of course a good sign that the Turkish Government now has a written programme setting out the action which Turkey must take on the basis of the demands of the European Union .
And it must take it , because paper alone is cheap .
Changes need to be made here .
The changes also affect the national security council which , according to this proposal , now needs to be reorganised as an advisory council and is no longer the final supreme instance of Turkish democracy or Turkish relations .
What Ecevit said to us was that there were several Kurdish dialects and that he could even imagine Kurdish being used as an official language in Turkey under certain conditions .
My last point is this : of course we are also aware in this House that the question of Turkey , including its relations with Greece , is bound up with the Cyprus issue .
If we could manage to make Turkey more open and more cooperative on the Cyprus question , that would be a very positive development .
I would like to add two or three minor points .
Turkey has its internal problems , but it has its external problems , too .
It could , for instance , show willing by accepting the jurisdiction of the court in The Hague , or the Court of Human Rights .
But no , this is not the case .
Secondly , in our endeavours to help Turkey integrate into the European Union , we must be strict when it comes to compliance with the political requirements we have laid down .
In this sense , if we try to paint a skewed picture of reality , then of course it will be a false one .
And in politics , false realities produce false results .
As you know , historically , such a thing is just not possible .
.
( PT ) Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to thank all the Members of the European Parliament for their contributions to this debate .
No !
Nobody said that !
And this is something upon which we agree .
I considered the speeches to be demanding ones , calling for the whole process to be scrutinised thoroughly .
The European Parliament obviously has an important role to play in this .
Turkey will not be admitted to the European Union without the European Parliament ' s approval .
Well , the decisions made at Helsinki are demanding ones , with clear benchmarks , and we are not currently negotiating Turkey ' s accession to the European Union .
Turkey has merely been recognised as a candidate .
The Copenhagen criteria are clear and Turkey must not be discriminated against , either positively or negatively .
Furthermore , the very fact that we are currently making good progress with the planned enlargement of the Union to include Central and Eastern Europe enables us to prove that Turkey is not being discriminated against .
I can tell you that the Commission is not carrying out an assessment even now .
This has not yet started , but the Commission has been instructed to prepare it .
The Commission is involved in bilateral discussions with Turkey in order to provide it with information on the acquis communautaire .
We have not even moved to the negotiating stage in which the assessment will be undertaken in a multilateral context , with the participation of all countries .
We are , therefore , at an exploratory stage .
We are giving Turkey powerful messages about the need for it to reform itself through its institutions , its laws and its administrative procedures .
I think that here too , real progress has been made , although perhaps not progress which has a clear legal form yet .
Mr President , I should like to subscribe to the President-in-Office ' s evaluation and to say that I feel this debate was helpful and supports the line which the Commission has followed .
It does not matter that Parliament has taken a more critical stance than I am able to do at present , for reasons which you will understand .
I should like to expressly stress here that there can be no discounts for anyone , including Turkey , when it comes to accession conditions .
I should also like to repeat here what I have said on previous occasions : we must be conscious of the fact that the process which we have now set in motion will not be without its setbacks .
I do not know what is easy and what is difficult to do in Turkey .
It is in our interests that the reform-orientated , democratic , pro-Europe forces carry the motion in this debate .
I should like to close by saying that we are still just right at the beginning .
We are in fact at the beginning of the beginning .
We are only just preparing the pre-accession strategy .
We have no pre-accession strategy yet which is why I think it is slightly premature to start talking about disappointments or about the need for a new strategy .
By definition , strategies only deserve to be called such when they can go the whole course .
I therefore advise on a little patience here .
That will be the time to say more than was possible today in this cautious evaluation .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place at the next voting session .
Deliberate release into the environment of GMOs
There are a number of critical issues which need to be addressed .
The first and the most important is the issue of producer liability .
The European Parliament has long called for legislation which would ensure that companies that want to produce genetically modified organisms would be totally responsible for the products they produce .
Regrettably , instead of accepting their full responsibilities , a number of companies have been launching massive campaigns behind the scenes to try and stop this proposal from advancing .
I am in no doubt that when we have the discussion tomorrow many MEPs will be confused and perhaps split in their vote on this issue .
I feel that the compromise we have found with the Christian Democrats is one that is viable and workable and I hope it will find support here .
At the same time the European Commission can endorse it by giving further reassurances about their own proposals for such a liability measure .
I want to see that European Commission proposals have real teeth when it comes to this Parliament in the not too distant future .
In addition to that critical issue there are also a number of other important questions .
I hope that tomorrow my colleagues will renew their support , as they did at first reading , for the demands for strong new limits on the use of GMOs containing genes with resistance to antibiotics .
Parliament has in the past called for a ban on all GM crops and foods containing such antibiotic-resistant genes , even those used for research .
Tomorrow we may take a softer line , but nevertheless we want to see action in this area .
We want to ensure that serious consideration is given to the dangers of using these crops .
We must also address an issue which was avoided at first reading , and that is the question of the control of the import and export of GMO crops and other GMO products .
Here we need to go to at least as far and perhaps beyond the measures agreed in the Bio-Safety Protocol in Montreal in January .
Many people fear the possible consequences of genetic pollution and it is our job to respond to those fears .
We have been lobbied by very many groups during the process of developing this legislation .
Not just the industry but also Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace have given their backing to various aspects of Parliament 's report .
The lobbying has become quite intense in the last few weeks .
The outcome of the vote in Parliament tomorrow is likely to bring a few shocks and surprises .
That should give biotechnology companies and others involved in the industry a clear idea of the rules that they have adhere to and consequently a more transparent and predictable regime .
That can be only good for the future development of this new technology within the European Union .
And I hope one of the significant non-legislative outcomes of this process will be a shift in the balance of power in the approval and control of GMO crops and food in favour of the public .
For the biotechnology industry that can only be to the good .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur , David Bowe , for his hard work .
Those who know me know that I am not a blind advocate of genetic engineering .
Many aspects worry me .
However , today we are debating the release of genetically modified organisms , especially plants .
And in my view , and in the view of the PPE , this is a different kettle of fish .
The common position is not too weak to guarantee public safety , as some would have us believe ; on the contrary , it is very , very strong .
It makes provision for a great many rules to govern monitoring , labelling and informing the public .
The common position offers an adequate level of safety for both man and the environment , which is why the PPE is against tightening up the common position , especially in certain critical areas .
If certain amendments calling for stricter provisions are accepted , then we can kiss biotechnology in the area of plants goodbye and we can totally ban it right away , but that is not what we want to do .
Take the example of genetic transfer .
All we hear about are Frankenstein plants and superweeds .
However , if you study the subject in detail , you will see that it is not a fact that cross-pollination from genetically modified plants is always an environmental disaster .
I have a key witness here .
The former research policy spokesperson for the Greens in the Bundestag once said that no Frankenstein plants were growing in the fields .
We are also opposed to discrimination against biotechnology when it comes to liability .
We do not want specific genetic engineering liability , we want general environmental liability .
It has frequently been said that the Commission must be forced to do something at long last .
Her predecessor failed to do so for several years and we should now move forward on the basis of this White Paper and decide on specific liability rules to be incorporated in the directive .
The common position is not too weak ; in our view it is too strong on certain points .
I think that the common position gives us good control of the risks .
We should not make the mistake of gambling away biotechnology ' s chances , which is why we shall not be voting in favour of all the tabled amendments .
I should like first of all to thank Mr Bowe for the work that has been done on the recommendation for second reading on amendment of the directive on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms .
I think it is a very competent piece of work , and I think some important improvements have been made to the common position .
I shall single out the points I think are most important .
First and foremost , I think it is right that we should now have an actual ban proposed on the use of substances which can produce resistance to antibiotics . I think it is important for health reasons .
I think that is a major flaw in current practice in this area .
In this connection , I also think that consents ought to be reviewed every ten years , so that they can only be issued for up to ten years at a time .
In that way , we can be properly sure that the necessary monitoring is carried out .
Finally , I would call attention to the question of objective liability .
If insurance cannot be taken out to cover such circumstances , then the risk in granting a licence is too great .
I hope we shall see the adoption of these amendments designed to tighten up on the common position .
If they are adopted , I also believe we shall obtain a legal basis for granting future consents for GMOs which serves our interests and which will provide the necessary security .
In that way , we shall , in actual fact , obtain the legal basis that should have been in place before the first consent for new GMO crops was issued .
In my opinion , the present legal basis is far too weak .
Mr President , I would like to stress that this is a debate on procedural questions regarding the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms , or GMOs .
Contrary to what one might think , this is not a fundamental debate on the pros and cons of GMOs or its principles , for that matter .
Needless to say , how we perceive GMOs will be reflected in the positions we adopt during the discussion about these procedures and the framework around them .
The following points are key issues for the Liberal group and these will also influence our voting behaviour .
First and foremost , there is the issue of the freedom of choice for consumers .
It is , of course , too crazy for words , really , that if you want GM-free food , you will need to settle for food with a guaranteed maximum GMO content of 1 % .
This is not dealt with as such in the draft directive but public information , labelling and transparency which crop up in this context are very much part and parcel of this issue .
Secondly , we would like to see the public have plenty of opportunity to have its say during the approval procedure of GMOs .
Thirdly , we would welcome a streamlined procedure that offers security to both consumers and producers and , as far as we are concerned , better harmonisation throughout the European Union .
Fourthly , we would like to see research promoted in Europe in the field of biotechnology so as to offer more clarity regarding what is and is not feasible .
One controversial issue is producer liability .
We are in favour of the self-regulating effect this has .
Ideally , we would like to see this liability included in the long-awaited horizontal regulation of environmental liability .
However , some of us are tired of waiting for this horizontal regulation in which the Commission has been engrossed for some 10 years now , and we want to move forward .
The present proposal is important to both producers and consumers and is welcomed by the liberal group . We , too , would like to congratulate the diligent rapporteur on this report .
Mr President , where the release of genetically modified crops into the environment is concerned , the precautionary principle must be the decisive factor .
At present , it ought to entail a moratorium on the release of new genetically modified crops into the environment .
Scientific ambiguities , especially where the risk of dissemination is concerned , and deficiencies in legislation and in the application of international agreements are both factors which justify a moratorium .
The proposals to be adopted tomorrow will not go anything like so far as we would have wished .
We shall therefore vote in favour of as satisfactory a solution as possible to the issue as a whole .
This means that we shall be voting in favour of most , but not all , of the proposals in the Bowe report .
We shall be voting in favour of a situation in which those who release genetically modified crops into the environment are held fully liable under civil law .
We are also in favour of having a clear obligation for the provision of information and in favour of recipient countries ' being approved in the case of exports to third countries .
Furthermore , we were critical of the authorisation procedures stipulated in the proposal , which seemed to us too lenient and inordinately centralised .
A year on , studies have been conducted that even more clearly highlight the dangers of releasing GMOs .
In these circumstances , we find the text which has been presented to the House for second reading increasingly outmoded .
How is it possible , in this day and age , that we have to demand a right as self-evident as this ?
Mr President , in February 1999 , we discussed the revision of Directive 90 / 220 at first reading .
I would remind you that in his contribution , Mr Blokland talked about the importance of the precautionary principle .
We are thus delighted that the Council has underlined this principle in the common position .
Both in the main body of the Directive itself , notably in Article 1 , and in its application , the precautionary principle has been accorded an important role when it comes to weighing it up against economic interests .
I mainly have the restriction of the simplified procedure and the attention to GMO traceability in mind .
On the whole , we should therefore be satisfied with the present proposals .
We are thankful to Mr Bowe for his report , which once again contains proposals which we are totally behind .
We are particularly delighted with the stricter wording related to reducing the risks for consumers .
Compared to Amendment No 32 , the original Amendment to Article 28 ( 1 ) was more forceful , in our opinion .
It very explicitly spelled out the possibility of consulting ethical committees in the case of ethical issues .
The present Amendment No 32 , on the other hand , only underlines the importance of being open with the public .
We regret this toning down .
Finally , I would like to point out that it is not sufficient to map out and restrict the risks pertaining to these new production methods .
Plants and animals are not production factors which can simply be manipulated .
The biotechnology debate requires an integral ethical approach .
We believe that God created the world .
Based on this awareness , we need to treat the natural world around us responsibly .
Mr President , this is a debate about plant research and plant protection from research .
It is a debate about the potential of GMOs for good and their potential for risk , and how you manage that risk .
You cannot abolish risk because it is part of our natural environment .
We cannot prevent all man-made risk because that would end scientific progress .
But we must respond to public concern about the potential and unknown dangers to our environment , to our food chain and to our health .
I believe there are four areas where we must act to reassure the public .
I believe we can do so without destroying biotechnology .
Firstly , antibiotic-resistant genes must be phased out .
The amendment sets a realistic , but urgent date of 2005 for that .
Secondly , we must be open with the public about where experimental crops are being grown .
That is only right . It is fair .
In return we must ask environmental action groups to show restraint and responsibility with regard to that knowledge .
Thirdly , we must build on the Montreal Protocol as far as the export of GMOs is concerned , and this should be done on the basis of mutual agreement and transparency .
Fourthly , as many Members have said , we must ensure liability ; but it is a question of whether we need any greater liability than applies to other environmental risks .
I suspect we do not , so long as we already have criminal , civil , product and environmental liability in law .
That should suffice , but it is wise to add the provision on negligence as something which can be brought into play within the courts .
We can gain real benefits from GMOs if we get it right .
Fewer crop sprays , for example , would benefit the environment if we grew GMO crops that did not need so many crop sprays .
But we have to take the public with us , with the science . I believe these measures will help to do just that .
Mr President , ideally GMOs should not be released into the environment .
But if it is going to happen there have to be a number of measures taken to ensure that the industries that say this technology is safe take responsibility .
That is why I cannot understand why the industry and the lobbyists are so concerned about the issue of liability .
If they are so sure that their products are safe then why are they afraid to take responsibility , both as regards liability and compensation ?
The other issue I should like to address is the contamination of gene transfer .
If you have contamination of conventional farms or organic farms , there is basically no free option for the consumer .
This is not acceptable .
At the end of the day , the GMO industry does not have anything to offer the consumer or the environment , even as regards the use of chemicals .
Mr President , I would like to thank Mr Bowe for his report and , in one minute , mention four fundamental questions which have already been discussed .
Firstly , the protection of public health .
It seems to us that we should strictly forbid the use of antibiotic-resistant genes .
Germany , Luxembourg and Austria have shown the way by banning Novartis maize , which has a gene which is resistant to ampicillin , a wide spectrum antibiotic .
Secondly , the commitment to international agreements .
Amendment No 1 refers to the Montreal Protocol and the need to defend biosafety and the consultation of and request for authorisation from non-EU countries for exports .
Thirdly , the civil liability clause , which is clearly necessary for those who are responsible for the release of these genetically modified organisms which may have effects on health or the environment .
Finally , Mr President , the prevention of genetic contamination .
This means preventing the spreading of transgenic pollen which may travel and contaminate other plants and , therefore , seriously affect the environment .
Mr President , I should like to start by complimenting Mr Bowe on his objective and balanced presentation .
In previous debates in Parliament I have put on record my own views in relation to biotechnology .
Of course there are concerns on the part of consumers .
They are entitled to an in-depth and independent evaluation of what is a rapidly changing technology .
The longer we allow the confusion to exist , the greater the delay in enabling society to benefit from its full potential .
It was the vigilance of this Parliament in particular that raised a warning flag in relation to many aspects of the application of this research .
But there are now welcome indications that the industry has taken on board Parliament 's concern in this regard .
The bottom line in relation to every aspect of the application of GMO technology , particularly in food production , is transparency , consumer information and accurate labelling .
In short , the consumer must at all times be given a choice .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , European consumers are justifiably concerned about genetically modified organisms and their release .
The industrial lobby continues , unscrupulously and in the name of the great god profit , to play the sorcerer ' s apprentice , juggling dangerously with food safety and consumer health .
It is Europe ' s duty to pass stringent legislation that will make these alchemists accountable and to guarantee product quality whilst also providing citizens with clear information .
We totally agree with the line of thinking adopted in this report .
The emphasis should be placed on the traceability facilitated by comprehensive information , including that aimed at third countries which import or export GMOs .
Indeed , consumer safety calls for equal treatment with a view to avoiding any deflection of trade or the export of products unsaleable on the European market .
We must also require the prior approval of the recipient country before any trade can take place .
If the liability of the operator responsible for release is to be officially established , it would also be advisable to define this liability precisely and unhurriedly , in order to avoid introducing an over-general concept of environmental liability .
Hence , it is essential that we introduce a modern framework governing the development , marketing and exploitation of genetically-modified organisms .
Europe must not be left behind the USA and Japan .
This , however , does not mean that we should overlook the safety issues surrounding these innovative applications , such as public health safety and environmental protection .
I must point out that we have all witnessed the ongoing war of words recently over the safety of genetically modified organisms .
This has led to confusion amongst consumers and has resulted in their being unable to form a sound judgement on the benefits and dangers of biotechnology .
We should therefore win consumer confidence and the way to do so is by improving safety standards .
For example , we can build up public confidence by banning the creation or use of GMOs containing antibiotic-resistant genes and by providing agencies and the general public with detailed and objective information .
It is also important for provision to be made for the directive to be adjusted and amended in line with new developments resulting from the fast pace of change in biotechnology and its applications .
In closing , I should like to dwell on one point which I stressed in the Committee on the Environment and which deserves our particular attention , and that is the issue of safety .
We are awaiting a more general proposal from the Commission on product liability and safety .
We must not overreact if we want this directive to promote and support such a promising sector .
Mr President , to genetically modify food means to break through the barrier that divides different species , for example by introducing a fish gene into a strawberry .
This is not possible in conventional agriculture .
Tinkering with genes holds unknown risks .
This is why measures are needed to prevent gene transfer so that this fish gene cannot contaminate conventionally or organically grown strawberries .
According to the gene tech industry , the risks of such unwanted contamination are low .
If these risks are so low , why is it then that the gene tech industry refuses to accept any legal liability ?
But maybe there is a risk for the environment and human health and in those cases , such a liability clause is most definitely needed .
The Christian Democrats are playing a dangerous game .
Whilst they are in favour of a liability clause in the directive on disposing of dangerous waste , they suddenly want to wait five years when it comes to gene technology .
If liability pertaining to gene food is not regulated now , suspicion among the public regarding this type of food will only grow .
The Christian Democratic position will rebound perfectly off the gene industry .
Mr President , genetic engineering and biotechnology are the key technologies of the future .
If we in the EU hamper or even block the use of genetically modified organisms , we shall be manoeuvring ourselves into a backwater in this important area .
We are already lagging far behind other countries .
The resultant competitive disadvantages for researchers , breeders , seed growers , farmers and even consumers would be immense .
But it is precisely these obstruction tactics which several groups within the European Union are applying .
They of course appear to be rather ideological in nature because generally there are no material grounds for them .
This attempt at obstruction can be found in a series of proposed amendments in the Bowe report .
They are distinguished by the fact that they demand the impossible , knowing full well that these demands cannot be met and can therefore block the release of GMOs in general .
This applies in particular to genetic transfer , which simply cannot be prevented in the open air , and to the question of liability .
The call for special liability means that farmers dare not use GMOs .
I also think that keeping a register of cultivated land beyond the experimental stage is unrealistic because I assume that 80-90 % of farmland would be entered in such as register in a few years ' time .
No one wants to play down genetic engineering , including me .
But nor can we demonise it .
Farmers have always endeavoured to use targeted breeding and cultivation techniques in order to develop efficient plant and animal material .
Techniques continue to develop , including in breeding and cultivation and one new technique is genetic modification .
It is our task to ensure that this technology is used responsibly , not to prevent it .
Mr President , I would urge colleagues to strengthen this report by insisting on environmental liability .
Producers of GMOs should be required to take out insurance against any damage to human health or to the environment from the release of their products .
The Commission promised the introduction of horizontal legislation over ten years ago .
But even though we now have a White Paper , the actual legislation is some years away .
This means that , if it is not accepted into this directive , the victims will have to pay for any damage instead of the companies that are making the profits .
Thousands of people across Europe have chosen not to buy products containing GMOs because of the evidence of health and environmental damage .
We must address those very real issues .
I would urge colleagues to accept my group 's amendments on liability insurance , GMO contamination and the ban on antibiotic-resistant genes .
Consumers are demanding the strictest controls and will be satisfied by nothing less .
It is vital that all the necessary safeguards are now included in this directive .
Mr President , I am pleased that Parliament , in collaboration with the Council , is now finally in a position to give Europe a chance to make its influence felt in the sphere of GMOs .
We must be careful , however , that we do not now just sit back in the belief that we have finished our work .
We have selected an authorisation procedure which is more restrictive than its American equivalent , and this will of course be significant in terms of our ability to hold onto the best companies and researchers .
The time limits we adopt for processing applications should not , therefore , be applied as the rule but , instead , constitute an absolute maximum .
We must reject the proposal that the entire liability for any damage should be shifted onto whoever has released the GMOs into the environment .
A natural consequence of Europe ' s strict authorisation procedure must be that the authorities assume a portion of the liability .
Mr President , when I started at the Commission last autumn I realised very quickly that the directive on the deliberate release of GMOs would be one of the most sensitive dossiers under my responsibility .
Genetically modified products and biotechnology give rise to a number of questions and concerns .
The most important are perhaps : what are the benefits ? What are the risks ?
How do we best avoid possible negative effects ?
How do we ensure that we have access to all the relevant information ?
To tackle these three concerns raised by our citizens we need a wide and open debate where all key players participate and the discussion cannot be limited only to the experts .
Here the European institutions , the Member States , industry and science all have to take their responsibilities .
The basis for meeting these new challenges has to be an efficient and transparent legislative framework .
I should especially like to thank the rapporteur , Mr Bowe , and the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy for their hard work in making a rapid and important contribution .
Our role as European policymakers should be to provide for a balanced response to these new challenges .
We need a regulatory framework , based on safety and the precautionary principle which ensure a high level of protection for human health and environment .
At the same time , it has to allow society to benefit from the development of modern biotechnology .
Our European legislation on GMOs guarantees an individual and thorough risk assessment of each GMO product placed on the European market .
We are here today to strengthen and improve the existing framework .
The sensitivity and complexity of the matter might explain why we are confronted with a total number of 52 amendments at second reading .
The Commission can accept in their entirety Amendments Nos 9 , 17 , 19 , 29 and 47 , which improve the quality and the clarity of the texts .
The Commission can also accept in principle Amendments Nos 1 to 4 , 8 , 11 , 24 , 35 to 38 , 46 , 48 , 49 and 52 .
They further strengthen the intention of the Commission to establish an efficient transparent and balanced regulatory framework for GMOs .
Let me comment further on Amendment No 1 and Amendments Nos 13 , 14 and 28 , which all relate to the biosafety protocol and obligations for imports and exports of GMOs .
The European Community was one of the driving forces in the successful adoption of the Cartagena Protocol on biosafety in January .
The Commission therefore welcomes the spirit of Amendment No 1 . This refers to the need to submit the appropriate proposals for the implementation of the protocol when ratified - work has already begun .
However , the Commission cannot accept the inclusion of provisions on import and export obligations in the text of the directive .
We believe that the implications of the protocol on the overall European Union legislative framework have yet to be fully assessed .
Amendments Nos 13 , 14 and 28 are therefore not acceptable in the present revision .
Let me now turn to the issue of liability , and I know that this is an important political subject for all of you .
When I made my presentation to Parliament in the autumn I promised that I would make particular reference to GMOs in the White Paper on environmental liability .
The Commission did exactly that when adopting the White Paper this year .
The Commission is of the opinion that a horizontal approach is the most efficient way to guarantee a comprehensive responsibility regime for environmental damage .
This will provide clarity for complainants and prevent loopholes .
This is also the best way to complement the existing horizontal system for product liability already covering GMOs .
I can assure you that I will do my utmost to be able to present a proposal for legislation on liability before the end of 2001 .
I can therefore accept Amendments Nos 2 , 36 and 46 in principle , as far as they refer to the Commission White Paper .
Let us be clear , if this is put in this directive , rules will have to be made to ensure legal clarity , and how long will that take ?
It must be seen in that context .
However , I cannot accept Amendments Nos 33 , 40 and 45 .
I am also fully aware of the political importance of certain other aspects raised by the proposed amendments .
It is clear that antibiotic resistance marker genes need to be phased out and be replaced with alternatives as soon as practically possible .
A phase-out is already foreseen in the common position . The Commission agrees to strengthen this political message .
The Commission cannot agree to a general ban of GMOs containing antibiotic resistance marker genes .
At the moment there is no scientific evidence that all GMOs of this type present adverse effects to human health and the environment .
Instead , we should continue to carry out a comprehensive case-by-case risk analysis .
Within these limits , Amendments Nos 11 , 37 , 48 and 52 are therefore acceptable in principle .
The Commission can also accept in principle Amendments Nos 3 , 4 , 8 , 24 and 35 to the extent that they are in line with the logic of the texts and fit within the overall legislative framework .
The Commission can therefore agree to a recital concerning socio-economic aspects which refers to the reporting obligation of the Commission .
This will be done every three years under Article 30 .
The Commission welcomes Amendments Nos 38 and 49 concerning gene transfer . They constitute a balanced approach between a total prevention and a permissive approach .
However , the wording should be aligned with the text of the directive .
In addition , the Commission reference should be deleted since the Commission does not necessarily play a role under Part B - national consent .
However , the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 12 concerning the prevention of gene transfer .
Gene transfer between organisms is , as we know , a common phenomenon in nature .
Instead we need to ensure that potential risks from gene transfer are thoroughly assessed before GMO products are released for research or placed on the market .
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 22 and 23 as they stand , since the provisions foreseen in these amendments would not be workable within the authorisation system established by the directive .
This is both for administrative and legal reasons .
The Commission , however , acknowledges that these amendments aim at addressing the possible problems that certain industries might face with strict time-limited consent .
This concerns in particular the plant breeding industry .
The Commission will therefore consider how due account can be taken of these concerns while ensuring political , legal and administrative consistency .
In this context , Amendment No 26 is also not acceptable since this would limit the flexibility of the optional time limitation of consent for the renewal .
Amendment No 25 seeks to introduce a provision which allows for the introduction of differentiated procedures under Part C of the directive .
This builds on the original proposal as presented at first reading in Parliament .
However , this amendment goes beyond the Commission proposal and is therefore not acceptable to the Commission as it stands .
The Commission is , however , willing to reconsider this amendment in the light of its original proposal and within the framework of an overall compromise .
Finally , I should like to deal as a package with the amendments I have not yet addressed .
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 21 since the legal basis of future legislative measures is subject to its content and cannot be established in advance by this directive .
Amendment No 6 , concerning a centralised Community procedure , is not acceptable .
However , I should like to stress that careful evaluation of a centralised procedure would be done in the Commission report required under Article 30 of the directive .
Access to the work of the European Group on Ethics and their opinions is an important of the general evaluation .
The Commission is , however , of the opinion that this is already appropriately covered in the Rules of Procedure of the Committee .
Amendment No 32 is therefore not acceptable .
To conclude , we urgently need a revised Directive 90 / 220 .
It has to ensure a high level of protection for human health and the environment and , at the same time , allow society to profit from the benefits of these new technologies .
To strike the right balance between these two justified concerns we need a transparent process , a wide dialogue and strong political leadership .
We all have to take our responsibilities in achieving this , and this is the only way in which we will win the trust and confidence of our citizens .
Mr President , I think that tomorrow ' s vote is so important that I should like to ask the Commissioner to clarify two points so that we know what we are voting on tomorrow .
Commissioner , my first question is this : have I understood you correctly , can you promise that you are making provision for an environmental liability with compulsory insurance , yes or no ?
I just want a yes or no .
Or is it correct that you only agree to liability as set out in the White Paper , i.e. just for Natura 2000 areas and with no compulsory insurance .
In plain text , this means that if damage occurs and the person responsible cannot be held liable , the general public , i.e. the taxpayer will pay for it .
Can you give Parliament a guarantee - and I should like a yes or no - that compulsory insurance is contained in a horizontal directive ?
My second point is this : unfortunately , you did not go into proposed Amendment No 42 .
Can you confirm that there is no EU legislation for GMOs in contained use ?
You know that the contained use directive excludes this and , at the same time , Article 2 ( 4 ) of the common position makes no provision for regulations on GMOs for contained use .
There is a gap in the legislation here and I think that this is very important for tomorrow ' vote .
For example , transgenetic fish in contained use would not be covered by the two directives .
I should like a clear answer on this .
I am not reopening the debate .
I will give the floor to the Commissioner if she wants to respond to these two specific points , but I thought the Commissioner 's response was very clear and comprehensive .
Commissioner , do you wish to reply ?
. Mr President , I shall start with the second part of Mrs Breyer 's question .
It is true that there is no specific Community legislation for the contained use of genetically modified plants and animals .
Amendment No 42 would prevent any exchange of genetically modified plants and animals for research activities under contained use until Community legislation is in force .
That is why we cannot accept Amendment No 42 .
As you know , we have now issued a White Paper on environmental liability .
It is now open for comments and views and we are ready to discuss it because I want to ensure that this environmental liability paper covers GMOs .
Your views are also welcome .
I intend to ensure that this paper covers GMOs .
It already covers product liability .
Insurance is one thing we will have to look into in more depth and also get the views of other parties on the practical aspects .
The White Paper is a first step , as you know .
That has to be discussed in depth and I will come back with a proposal .
I believe it will be possible to put an insurance system in place .
The debate is closed .
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Identification , registration and labelling of beef
- ( EL ) Mr President , we all know that the bovine spongiform encephalopathy crisis , the mad cow crisis , is yet another crime which has not been punished , and I doubt it ever will .
As you will recall , we fought a hard battle over this regulation last December in order to protect the rights of the European Parliament .
We also fought a battle to push through the implementation of the measures laid down in this regulation as swiftly as possible .
In short , we all know what we are talking about .
On the basis of this regulation , very soon , this year , all bovine animals will , by law , have to be identified and monitored right up to slaughter .
Meat from bovine animals will carry a label indicating the origin and history of the animals from which the meat is derived .
During our analysis of this regulation , we tried to cater for a great many demands and a great many opinions .
We wanted the provisions of the regulation to be kept as simple as possible so that they could be applied , and applied as quickly as possible .
Let us not forget that the system we are going to implement is an extremely complex , extremely technical system , and concerns approximately 100 million animals throughout the EU .
So we are talking about an extremely complex operation .
I believe that we have managed to achieve this .
I would just like to look at two amendments , two categories of amendments .
First , your rapporteur is calling , with the greatest respect , for a report , a Commission proposal , within the year , on the application of this system to meat products .
If we want to be taken seriously , we should also take account of consumer confidence in all meat products , of which , as we all know , there are a great many .
And secondly , some amendments deal with how permits are to be granted to enterprises , operators and so on to apply the labels , to label the meat .
The provisions recommended by the Commission are , to my mind , extremely minimal .
The interested party submits an application and , after a period of time , the system which he wishes to apply is applied .
I propose that we change this system .
Anyone labelling meat must have explicit approval from the competent public authorities .
This may seem a little more laborious , but we already have a laborious system and we must , at all costs , have state approval for meat labelling .
Mr President , as draftsman of the Committee on Agriculture , I should like to recapitulate a number of the committee ' s main causes for concern on this question .
The most important objective of the Commission proposal - and I should like expressly to stress this once again - is the traceability of beef or bovine animals from birth through to processing and sale .
We want labels which are practicable , simple , safe , cheap and easy to control .
Labels must be easy for consumers to understand , which is why the information needs to be kept to a minimum .
Consumers want information , not a novel .
Information on the fattening process and , where applicable , on antibiotics or other stimulants administered , as demanded in proposed Amendment No 48 , have absolutely no business to be on the label .
This applies in particular to information on the region of origin of the meat .
We shall have problems explaining this to consumers .
The Committee on Agriculture agreed on the wording " by 1 January 2002 at the latest " in a compromise on the introduction of compulsory information on origin , i.e. stage 2 .
Now the Committee on the Environment has opted for 1 September 2001 and I think that we can agree to this date .
It is only a matter of four months .
But we are emphatically against making all the information , including the indication of the place of birth , compulsory when the regulation enters into force in September 2000 , rather than in two stages .
That makes no sense , as the electronic database on which traceability depends is not yet up and running in the majority of Member States .
A compulsory labelling system for beef can only be as good as the system for registering bovine animals and all their movements .
Mr President , beef labelling has two distinct functions .
The two should not be confused .
For traceability we need maximum information made available to the authorities as and when required but the consumer label should be simple , concise and unambiguous .
The need for information sprang from the BSE crisis .
Member States have differing levels of BSE incidence but there are also variations in the measures to eradicate the disease and protect human health .
Although the United Kingdom has the highest incidence of BSE , it also has the most comprehensive control measures .
Other countries , which admittedly have lower declared levels of BSE , operate a whole-herd slaughter policy which entails the risk of the under-reporting of cases .
Therefore people want to know which country their beef comes from .
Reference to regions should not be an alternative to country of origin but a voluntary addition .
Even regions like Yorkshire , Britain ' s premier region and coincidentally the region I represent , are not known by every citizen throughout the EU .
From a marketing and promotional point of view smaller areas and localities could be used , as well as regional breeds such as Aberdeen Angus .
The well established description of Scotch beef should continue to be used .
Small traditional butcher shops that sell beef unpackaged should be allowed to display information as an alternative to labelling each item .
Many consumers would be confused if given information about hanging or maturation , which could be mixed up with sell-by dates in their minds .
I would draw attention particularly to Amendment No 41 which seeks to exclude farmers from Community aid schemes if the regulation is not strictly adhered to .
I have already had cases drawn to my attention regarding other EU schemes where honest errors by farmers , who are not professional bureaucrats , have resulted in punitive sanctions which often threaten the future of a family farm .
We should not go down this road .
The listing of antibiotics and stimulants that might have been administered would , if adopted , create a two-tier beef market .
Animal welfare would be compromised as farmers would be reluctant to treat animals therapeutically .
Similarly , reference to fattening methods should not be introduced .
I hope that in amending this regulation Parliament can for once simplify rather than embellish and make the labelling of beef consumer- , butcher- and farmer-friendly .
Mr President , my group welcomed the report by Mr Papayannakis and salutes him for his persistence .
He has also had to face the obfuscation and delays brought about by the Council .
However , we are not here today for recriminations but for looking ahead .
This is our chance to put right this sorry process of delay .
Parliament has the opportunity , if it is willing to grasp it , to set a realistic timetable for the two-tier implementation of a comprehensive process of labelling for beef and for beef products .
In the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy , we supported most of the amendments from the rapporteur and others and we do so again today .
We do that on the basis that the key proposal plainly has to be the issue of timing .
Some of the versions of this report in themselves have been contradictory in the dates that they gave .
We are now talking about implementation of the first stage in September 2000 and the second stage in September 2001 .
I was glad to hear the representative of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development say that they would settle for the four-month advance that would involve coming forward from January 2002 .
We believe that this is necessary because we should now get the whole European Union on the move .
That is why we want the second stage as set out in Article 13 ( 5 ) to be distinct and a commensurate advance .
Why do we want that ?
There are some here - certainly some from Member States that have very effective traceability and labelling possibilities already - who would like to do the whole thing at once .
They would be able to say to others : look - you cannot do it , you are at fault .
We say to those who are resistant to this : please remember that it is necessary to bring everybody on board .
We have struck out the second subparagraph of Article 13 ( 5 ) and all other amendments which follow the same line of allowing imprecise mixed origins or an indication such as " EU origin " .
One day " EU origin " may be assurance enough but it is not at this moment .
We need to know from which state a product has arrived .
I know that there are people in the Netherlands who disagree with that and I would be interested to know why .
I cannot see that " EU origin " is currently sufficient in the way of labelling and we are opposed to that proposal .
We are also opposed to the derogation for minced beef , which might apply to something like 30 % of the beef output , which ought to be open to labelling .
Minced beef is as much , if not more , at risk as any other form of beef since it frequently comes from a variety of sources .
It is the case in my country that we have seen minced beef and lamb and other meats mixed up together .
We need traceability and labelling there as much as anywhere else .
We agree with the rapporteur ' s intention to stiffen and speed up the compliance provisions in Amendments Nos 42 and 43 .
We also agree that supplementary information should and can be provided for those Member States that need it and for those special regions which have important information to communicate .
My last point is to end where I began .
My country , Mr President , and yours - if I can call Scotland my country too , as I certainly would - have suffered the horrors of BSE .
We know we bore a large part of the responsibility for it .
It was incumbent upon us to make special provisions by way of food safety as a result .
After our years of effort to that end , we can now justifiably say to the Community as a whole that what we want for ourselves we want for everyone else as well .
Mr President , rapporteur , ladies and gentlemen , it is important to reinstate market confidence .
The crucial factor is that it should be possible to trace with certainty the origins of what we eat .
Amendment No 29 is very important for producers , above all perhaps for small producers in vulnerable areas .
This Amendment would entitle producers to provide information on the label in addition to the name of the nation where the goods concerned originate .
There would be the option to state , for example , the particular area from which the meat comes or the fact that a particular breed of cattle or special breeding methods have been used .
However , there should be no legislation on this matter , other than a ban on lying .
I am very pleased about Mr Whitehead ' s remark about minced meat .
I fully and wholeheartedly support Amendment No 30 from the rapporteur .
For me , the most important aspect of this whole issue is that no exceptions should be made for cheap food .
We who sit in this Chamber , for the most part middle-aged and well-to-do , know perfectly well that it is young people and families with children who buy and eat the cheapest food - sausages , hamburgers etc .
In all social systems and at all periods in history , the most vulnerable groups have had the least purchasing power .
It is our absolute moral duty first and foremost to make cheap food safe before we do the same for fillet of beef .
Mr President , Commissioner , the European Parliament has proven its far-sightedness on this matter and I should like to thank the two rapporteurs from the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture for their work .
They have approached the issue with the same consistency demonstrated by the European Parliament .
Allow me to refresh your memory : compulsory registration has applied for a long time , because Regulation No 820 / 97 entered into force on 1 January 2000 .
The postponement adopted is not lawful .
The European Parliament has filed charges against the Council because the postponement was not within the Council ' s discretion .
Nor did the Commission come up smelling of roses here .
It was the Commission which proposed this seemingly elegant but legally dubious procedure .
If nothing is done , compulsory labelling will enter into force on 1 September 2000 .
The Commission is therefore urged to accept the European Parliament ' s proposals in this codecision process by 1 September .
We have tried in our suit to ensure that no equally elegant attempt will be made to implement an extension on 1 September - and I hope that we shall succeed in putting a stop to this .
If we cannot agree on Parliament ' s proposals by 1 September , then the old regulation with the compulsory system will enter into force .
I therefore hope that you will implement Parliament ' s reasonable proposals and that you will give up your plan to postpone this once again until the year 2003 .
It will confuse our citizens and will certainly meet with decisive resistance here in Parliament .
The basis for this was and still is the passport for each individual animal which provides information on place , origin and birth .
Thanks to comprehensive controls of and the wealth of data on the animal trade , the place of origin and rearing can be proven .
What I mean is that we are not starting from square one and , as a producer of several tonnes of beef a year , I know what I am talking about .
The latest crisis in the foodstuffs sector may justify the introduction of stricter standards , as contained in the report ; however , where possible , red tape should be reduced .
Mr President , the people who will be most shocked to learn of this evening ' s debate must surely be European consumers .
They will be astounded to learn that , so many years after the start of the BSE crisis , the European Union still does not have a reliable traceability system for beef .
Fortunately , the appropriate initiatives by the most enterprising Member States have compensated for the extraordinarily slow reactions of the Community apparatus .
It is therefore all the more deplorable that they should have been deprived of this possibility by the Treaty of Amsterdam .
I am thinking in particular of the compulsory labelling system which was drawn up in France together with livestock farmers and distributors , which has been in force since 1996 .
This system has proved very effective . It has made it possible to restore consumer confidence .
France ' s legitimate wish not to lift the embargo on British beef prematurely , since Britain did not offer the same guarantees of traceability , was in order to maintain this restored level of confidence .
France had simply forgotten that it no longer had the right to do this .
What a decidedly strange Europe it is that penalises Member States which take the necessary initiatives and action to restore consumer confidence and protect citizens ' health !
Compulsory labelling indicating the origin of goods must therefore be introduced as soon as possible , and it must certainly not be postponed until 1 January 2003 , as the Commission proposes .
Nor must we agree , as the Commission is once again proposing , to adopt an over-general EC-type generic designation of origin .
Consumers want to be certain of the operators ' ability to monitor the origin of meat accurately .
The Member State of origin must therefore be indicated .
Furthermore , beef imported from third countries must be subject to the same labelling regulations as Community beef , and if it does not comply with European Union regulations on traceability , this must also be clearly indicated .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , fourteen years after BSE first appeared , we have finally got around to doing something about labelling meat in order to protect consumers and ensure traceability .
This protection is undoubtedly belated in principle but , above all , illusory in practice .
Firstly , in the draft regulation , 50 % of European meat is effectively exempt from compulsory labelling if it is minced or cut .
For the remaining 50 % , labelling is not compulsory until 2003 , which means that we have three years to dispose of British surplus stocks .
And after 2003 , the designation of origin may be limited to a simple indication of ' EC origin ' with no mention of the country .
This is a good move .
The amendments will be adopted .
The unwillingness of the Commission is , however , with apologies to the Commissioner , apparent to everyone .
As a solution , labelling is a good idea only at first sight .
Labelling is no safeguard against GMOs , chocolate containing vegetable fats or , tomorrow , GMO fats , or , at a later date , American hormone-treated beef , or prion-infected meat .
The only effective protection would be checks , and this requires States and frontiers .
We have , however , eliminated frontiers , and this is the price we have to pay for Europe : freedom of movement at the expense of safety .
I just hope , ladies and gentlemen , that no one will have to be punished in future .
Previously one could be punished at the stake , now punishment would mean a steak , a British beefsteak .
Mr President , this debate on the labelling of beef is closely akin to our previous concerns on the subject of food safety .
In our view the important and essential thing in this report is that all meat industry products should be covered by compulsory labelling , from basic butchered meat to derivatives , minced meat , cut meat , etc .
Finally , it is essential that these measures should be implemented as quickly as possible , since it is a matter of consumer rights .
Let us not delay , especially as this is no recent matter .
It is high time we took action .
Consumer confidence cannot be decreed , it must be earned .
Mr President , I wish to put firmly on the record tonight that the farmers in Northern Ireland are exceedingly angry at the UK Government for not seeking European funding to help promote beef labelling .
That is a very fundamental question that must be made perfectly clear in any law that we pass .
Any food labelling policy must be accurate and dependable for both the producers and the consumers .
Farmers deserve to have a guarantee of that , and so should the consumers .
Mr President , the discussion on labelling beef has reached a point at which it is crucial to restore confidence among producers and consumers .
It strikes me that this Parliament insists on also making national labelling possible and obligatory , while the Commission places the emphasis on labelling which states " originates from the EU " .
This must be our ultimate goal . We will then be where we need to be .
One of these measures is most definitely the use of a label indicating the Member State .
This is good , because in this way we can start restoring confidence in the producer , especially at a time when food safety is so much in the public eye .
We simply need this .
Another positive step is if it could also be pointed out that there can be a time when confidence will be restored .
Mr President , Commissioner , food safety gets people talking perhaps more than any other issue , and , for that reason , it is good that it also gets us talking here in Parliament .
But the most important consideration is that it does not just get us talking , but that we should also do something about it .
The work of Mr Papayannakis has already been praised here .
I would like to express my thanks too : it is a good basis for better standards of consumer safety throughout the European Union .
We have plenty of examples of consumers not having always been given priority when it comes to food production .
The Single Market and the free movement of goods provide more freedom of choice for the public and better markets for producers .
In this case , it is especially important that meat and processed meat products are among those products whose origin the consumer knows .
Many have mentioned here that the EC label is not enough and that more precise information is needed . I agree with this .
It is absolutely essential to know what country the products are from .
In addition , the origin , not only of meat products , but of the ingredients used in processed meat , must be shown as clearly as possible .
Labels must also be made compulsory as quickly as possible .
The timetable that the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy is proposing is not too pressing .
The Member States should have already prepared themselves for it .
Mr President , this regulation cannot be postponed any longer , and I fully support the stricter timetable that the European Parliament is proposing in the amendments to the Commission ' s proposal .
Consumers require information about where the animal was born , bred and slaughtered , and cattle should be identified and registered so that their traceability can be guaranteed .
The Commission must be far more vigorous than it has been so far in putting the screws on those countries which have not established databases , so ensuring that the countries concerned become fully operational in this respect .
The issue is also one of credibility when it comes to implementing joint resolutions in all Member States .
It is also about citizens ' confidence and belief that food quality is everything it should be .
A bit of drive needs to be shown , and no exceptions should be made in the case of cattle which graze in the mountains .
Where registration is required , what , in any case , is the difference between cattle which graze in the mountains and those which graze in valleys or in fields ?
The purpose of the regulation in question must be to achieve a situation in which consumers have confidence in meat from all EU countries .
Until this is a reality , consumers need to know precisely which country their meat comes from .
I have tabled an amendment to the effect that the slaughterhouse ' s authorisation number should not be shown on the label .
In this way , I wished to ensure that small and medium-sized slaughterhouses could continue to supply meat to butchers .
The authorisation number does not provide the consumer with any useful information and has no bearing upon traceability .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I should like to start by thanking everyone who has worked so constructively on this report .
The compulsory registration system for bovine animals due to enter into force is the sine qua non for a reasonable beef labelling system .
As a farmer , I am concerned that every consumer should be able to trace where his schnitzel has come from .
All farmers are proud of the quality of their products and it is therefore in the farmers ' interests for everyone to know whom they have to thank for their extremely safe and healthy food .
Such a system must be practicable if it is to achieve its objective .
We must take account of how the procedures will be applied in practice .
Because of the varying topography of Europe , its farmers must apply different working and production methods .
Take the example of summer pasturing in the Alps .
As you know , every spring a total of 400 000 cattle are driven on to the Alps in Italy , Austria and Germany , where they remain for the summer , i.e. for about three months .
Consideration must be given to the pasturing lists which are already in use and which take account of this situation in order to avoid forcing additional unnecessary administrative costs on farmers .
As we have said , traceability must be guaranteed in all cases .
But the regulation must be adapted to actual and local circumstances if it is to be seen as anything other than EU harassment , which merely triggers abuse and if it is to gain acceptance among the people .
I therefore hope that proposed Amendment No 19 to Article 7 ( 1 ) second indent will be adopted by the entire House .
It has already been adopted by the Committee on the Environment and in the Committee on Agriculture .
Mr President , the discussion on labelling beef is quite loaded .
An important question is whether the " Origin : EU " label should be permitted as an added option .
The Commission thinks it should .
Many in Parliament believe that it is the country of origin that should be on the label . The background to this is the food crises .
I could not agree more that beef should be completely traceable and that this should be the case as soon as possible .
I also understand that consumers increasingly want information on the country of origin or region of origin concerning their food . This is often a matter of taste .
Furthermore , I agree with the analysis that the " Origin : EU " label could be abused by countries where food safety is not regulated .
But I do not advocate scrapping the option of including " Origin : EU " on the label either .
In my opinion , we should choose another approach .
We need to prescribe conditions for the use of the " Origin : EU " label .
One condition , for example , could be that the identification and registration system must be fully implemented and observed .
There are , of course , other means of enforcing compliance , but this method is far more direct .
Parliament has to keep an eye on compliance with the directives it produces .
If the producer prefers to indicate the country of origin nonetheless , this is possible too .
There are a number of additional arguments as to why " Origin : EU " labelling should be possible .
For example , the meat industry and retail trade have raised all kinds of practical objections and pointed at the red tape which too detailed information would entail .
I will not spend any time on this argument , as it is not of key importance , in my opinion .
However , I would like to ask your attention for a question of principle .
The internal market is a large entity .
The principle of mutual recognition is fundamental .
Mutual recognition requires trust , and trust requires common standards , especially in the case of food safety .
If we prohibit the use of the " Origin : EU " label , we would be resigning ourselves to a kind of re-nationalisation of the internal market .
We would then be accepting that we have more confidence in certain countries than others and this is a sign of little faith in our own food safety policy .
This is unacceptable in my view .
All EU Member States need to guarantee safe meat .
" Origin : EU " is then a symbol for quality and I therefore advocate backing Amendments Nos 60 and 61 .
Mr President , Commissioner , in my view , at present this is not a matter of confidence in the safety of food alone : it is very important that we also look to the near future .
We must put our own house , our own part of the world , in order .
The EU is expanding eastward , and we all know the capacity and volume of meat and beef production there , for example .
This should also alert them to the fact that they must now start to put their own affairs in order , so that they can adapt to the model that exists here .
If we are not ready , how can we expect others to be ?
For this reason , labelling must be kept very simple : the labels must show the country of origin , and , if one wishes , the region of production .
But a label showing the country of origin of a product is very important to us , particularly if we want consumers to have confidence in food safety in the future .
Mr President , Commissioner , the beef industry has signed a contract with public opinion , based on the transparency claimed and , I might even say , demanded by the citizen .
Today , this transparency is applicable , within the beef industry , to two different but indissociable areas : BSE and labelling .
France is stepping up its precautionary measures for specified at-risk materials and is implementing an extensive protocol to evaluate ESB tests on bovine animals .
Tomorrow , the European Union is preparing to outline a test programme for all Member States .
In this context , consumers would not understand the delays in the matter of labelling .
Let us make no mistake as to what is at issue here .
I am convinced that the subject of beef labelling is no mere technical issue .
Finally , what our fellow citizens are demanding is the right to information .
This right to be informed is the natural counterpart to the development of trade and the proper exercise of competition .
By virtue of the transparency it conveys , labelling makes it possible to improve the freedom of movement of beef , providing assurances to consumers and guaranteeing their freedom to make an informed choice .
Mr President , I agree with the many speakers before me that what we need more than anything at the moment is a system which enables traceability at all stages of production .
Fortunately , integral chain control ( ICC ) is already well-known in many countries .
In my opinion , this is not related to national borders .
This does not preclude all the other information being added to the label on a voluntary basis .
Mentioning the relevant country , region , town , village , and so on and so forth , is fine but let the consumer decide where he wants to buy the product .
But it should not be an EU stipulation .
If this were to be the case , then this would be a re-nationalisation of Europe ' s common market in a sense , and that would be a retrograde step .
Mr President , I am very disappointed at the delay , though I am delighted now that we are going to have clear compulsory labelling .
I hope this will restore consumer confidence in beef , especially after the BSE crisis .
I would like to see not only the country but also the region of origin on the label .
I represent the West Midlands which has some of the best beef in the world - Herefordshire beef and Shropshire beef .
I should like to see that go on the label .
I would oppose very strongly the idea that " EU " should be on the label and not the country and region of origin .
I am also concerned about some of the words that might go on the label .
One of those words is " slaughtered " .
That will not help with consumer confidence and might put some of the consumers off if they actually see where the animal was " slaughtered " .
I wish we could find a new word for it .
Generally speaking , I am delighted that at last we are going to have clear labelling and , as I said , I want it to be the country and region of origin .
Mr President , I wish to begin by saying that I welcome the report .
A European Union-wide identification system for cattle is long overdue .
The system is certainly very necessary , if nothing else than to achieve a level playing field within the European Union and to ensure that all countries reach the same standards .
I want to sound a note of caution .
I come from an area in Northern Ireland that has a standard of identification and traceability which is as good as any ever will be .
No system is a hundred per cent perfect , so do not think you can bring that about .
There will always be people out to abuse the system .
That has been the case for centuries - and will continue .
You can only try to develop the best possible system of traceability .
I have a number of concerns .
The first is : who pays ?
The problem to date has been , in my experience in Northern Ireland , that the consumer has borne the brunt of the cost of the extra traceability , and this has been substantial .
It has not been borne by the retailer .
The consumer will perhaps ultimately pay - but he or she may not .
From that point of view it is expensive for those people .
I have one further question of the Commission .
Is it wise to renationalise the beef market ?
Or even to regionalise it within countries .
I seriously question that point .
We have fought for years within the European Union to achieve a single market and now we are renationalising that market .
I challenge the Commission tonight to answer that question .
Is this a wise move ?
Let us not look to the short term , let us look to the long term , because the long term is the challenge - not five years but ten , fifteen years from now .
What is going to be the situation on the beef market ?
As I said , in Northern Ireland we have full traceability and our measures go beyond the regulations .
I have to say to the Commission , and to producers in other Member States , that my producers have to date not seen any financial benefit from that which they have suffered .
The proposal , as Mr Goodwill has said , has two important aims .
First to ensure the traceability of beef , second to allow consumers to make a fully informed choice .
Unfortunately , although the two aims are compatible , there is some tension between them where the details of the regulation are concerned .
This is particularly the case in relation to Article 13 and Article 13 ( 2 ) primarily serving the first and Article 13 ( 5 ) the second aim .
Amendments Nos 26 and 28 to 13 ( 5 ) therefore seemed rather confused - one seeking less and one seeking more detailed information for consumers .
For this reason , whatever the final form of Article 13 , I regard Amendments Nos 15 and 29 as being of the first importance .
Amendment 29 in particular will allow areas of the EU that are justifiably proud of the quality of their product to identify it as such .
A whole series of amendments to the Commission proposal have been tabled , 44 of which were accepted by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection on 22 March .
A further 18 proposed amendments were subsequently submitted for this plenary sitting .
I should like to start with the Commission ' s views on the first 44 proposals .
The Commission is able to accept 18 of them .
This includes proposed amendments which are accepted in full or in part and amendments which require minor editorial changes .
In another 12 proposed amendments I can see what your concerns are but the Commission is unable to accept these amendments .
However , I shall ensure that the Council is informed of your point of view .
This applies , for example , to proposed Amendment No 20 .
I also accept proposed Amendment No 19 , second part , which makes provision for a simplification for cattle pastured on the Alps in the summer .
The improvements to the definition of labelling are also acceptable .
The same applies to the information to be included on the label and to the interpretation of the concept of origin .
As we are all concerned that the labelling system should be introduced as quickly as possible , I welcome proposed Amendment No 39 reducing the deadline set for the Member States to appoint the competent authorities .
Finally , proposed Amendment No 44 , under which the regulation would enter into force on 1 September 2000 heads in exactly the same direction .
I think the new recital suggested in proposed Amendment No 6 , whereby Member States must ensure that their databases are operational as quickly as possible , is also a good idea .
As I too take the view that the possibility of confusion with protected geographical indications governed by Regulation 2081 / 92 must be excluded , I agree unreservedly with the new recital in proposed Amendment No 15 .
Nonetheless , we must still investigate how the stated objective is to be reached , whereby I envisage a more comprehensive solution than that suggested in proposed Amendment No 29 .
The question of when compulsory indications of origin need to be introduced is an important point .
I would point out in this respect that the Committee on Agriculture has recommended that they be introduced on 1 January 2002 .
I also note that you insist that indications of origin must state the country , even if this means listing several countries on the label .
I am sorry that you find the simplified indication " Produced in the European Union " unacceptable , despite the fact that it is in keeping with the principles of the internal market .
As far as labelling of minced meat is concerned , we must bear in mind that the production of minced meat , for example of hamburgers , is a continuous process .
The obligation to provide a complete indication of origin for this meat would therefore give rise to technical problems and may well bring the entire intra-Community trade in processed meat to a virtual standstill .
I would therefore suggest that you reconsider the simplified labelling system .
Finally , I think it is premature to commit ourselves to extending the labelling system to processed products containing beef , as suggested in proposed Amendment No 40 .
Let us gain some experience with the system being proposed now and then we can consider this idea at a later date .
If proposed Amendment No 44 is accepted , the regulation automatically enters into force on this date .
Proposed Amendments Nos 45 and 46 are therefore superfluous for technical reasons .
As far as proposed Amendment No 47 is concerned , I should like to advise against continuing the national compulsory beef identification system as soon as the full EU system has been introduced .
In the end we would have 15 different national systems , which runs completely counter to the internal market .
Proposed Amendment No 48 refers to information on the use of antibiotics or stimulants and to fattening methods .
This idea may look simple on paper , but it is in fact extremely complicated to administer and , more importantly , to control .
In addition , there is no definition of the various rearing methods and every animal will certainly be fed using various methods , rather than one and the same method , during its lifetime .
As far as medication is concerned , it would be much better to maintain our high veterinary standards , thereby guaranteeing that only safe beef reaches the market .
The Commission would therefore prefer not to adopt this proposal .
It is obvious from the vote in committee that Parliament is not in favour of amending the Commission ' s basic attempt to simplify the approval procedure .
However , I see that a total of nine new proposed amendments have been tabled for this plenary sitting which were not adopted by the Committee on the Environment .
These amendments seek to re-introduce a formal approval procedure for voluntary information on labels .
Let me assure you that such amendments do not cause any particular problem because their purpose is to reinforce the administrative procedure .
For the rest , recent discussions in the Council have gone in the same direction .
I am therefore convinced that these proposed amendments will be taken on board by the Council .
From now on , the Commission will be acting as go-between between the two decision-making institutions on this matter .
With just over three months , we do not have much time left for a final decision .
Given the speed with which you have worked here in Parliament , hopefully the Council will decide on its common position as quickly as possible .
That concludes the debate .
The vote will be taken on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
( The sitting was closed at 12.10 a.m. )
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of yesterday ' s sitting have been distributed .
Are there any comments ?
Mrs Ludford , are you sure your point of order is related to the Minutes ?
Madam President , I signalled I wanted to raise a point of order , although it is not actually on the Minutes .
I do not want to delay the House unduly , but I think that as we prepare to debate the construction of Europe , it is important to take note of a landmark court judgement in the UK .
The so-called historian , David Irving , has lost his libel case against the American academic , Deborah Lipstadt , who accused him of manipulating evidence to deny the Nazi genocide of the Jews .
This judgement is important , not just for Europe ' s past , but also for its present .
With the rise in racism and anti-Semitism and the electoral success of extremist parties , this judgement boosts the fight to make Europe a society free of racism and at ease with diversity .
Thank you , Mrs Ludford .
I am happy to take note of your point of order .
But for the time being I would like comments to relate to the Minutes , so that we can adopt them .
After that Members are free to move any other points of order .
I would like to underline that although the Minutes mentioned specifically the EPP Group , it is in fact not the only group to have acted in this way .
For instance , the Technical Group , the TDI Group , which did not table any amendments at committee stage whatsoever , has now arrived in plenary with between 20 and 30 amendments , many of which are contradictory .
They are tabled by different members within that group taking different positions and therefore cannot possibly be a group position .
That does not respect our own Rules of Procedure , which allow only 32 members or a group to table amendments in plenary .
Madam President , my point concerns the section of the Minutes on Question Time yesterday evening , when I raised a point of order .
First of all , Question Time was put back to 6 : 30 p.m. , then it was announced on the screen that it would begin at 6 : 50 p.m.
In the end it was after 7 : 00 p.m. before Question Time started .
The first part was supposed to last 30 minutes , according to the Agenda ; but it lasted much longer .
Basically , my problem is that I had questions down - as some other people did - to Commissioner Byrne .
We had group meetings at the time and saw on the screen " Question 41 " .
But by the time I reached the plenary , you had moved on automatically within a few minutes to Question 49 .
So five or six people had questions down to Commissioner Byrne , but none of us were here to ask the questions .
Commissioner Byrne seems to have taken offence at this and seen it as some kind of snub .
But it is very difficult for Members to sit right through every single question during Question Time just in case we jump from No 1 to No 99 in a matter of seconds .
So , could we please stick to the Agenda : thirty minutes for the first part of Question Time , twenty for the second part and so on .
We should not keep changing the Agenda because then it is extremely difficult for us to operate .
Thank you , Mrs McKenna .
I take note of your comment and will ensure this does not happen again .
Madam President , in recent days , immense natural catastrophes in which quite a number of people have died have again occurred on the banks of the River Tisza .
I would therefore ask the President to send our condolences to both the Romanian and Hungarian parliaments .
At the same time , we must be alert to the kind of environmental risks these natural catastrophes may entail for our common European environment .
The Tisza flows into the Danube delta , which is one of the world ' s most significant protected areas of environmental interest .
Thank you , Mrs Thors , I am quite prepared to do so .
Madam President , with rather more levity .
Last night in the Committee on Budgets when the refreshments were being distributed , Mr Colom pointed out that the small cartons of milk were marked " for distribution in schools only " .
Had it said " for schoolchildren only " one could understand why it was being distributed in the European Parliament , but it was marked " for schools only " .
Could we find out why this has happened ?
It is so embarrassing .
I know we campaigned for more school milk but , on this occasion , we did not want it here .
Thank you , Mr Wynn , I cannot answer you right now , but I will have the matter investigated .
They were protesting at having to work 12 hours at a stretch , day and night , for an average net salary of FRF 6 000 , without even receiving extra pay for night or weekend work .
I want to express my solidarity with them . Moreover , we have written you a letter , Madam President , on behalf of the LO and LCR Members , and hope you will follow the matter up .
Thank you , Mrs Laguiller .
I will give the letter my utmost attention .
There is some technical fault here , and I wish the relevant people would check whether there is too much interference here , owing to mobile phones , for example .
Even the position of my head affects audibility , and I cannot really sit here listening with my head tilted to one side .
The other request I have is for a technician to adjust the sound volume here .
Some Members shout into the microphone , even though the microphone is , in fact , there to make shouting unnecessary , thereby making it impossible to hear anything over the headphones .
Thank you , Mr Paasilinna , we will look into all that and check the sound system in general .
( The Minutes were approved )
IGC
First of all I must inform the House that the Union for Europe of the Nations Group has moved the report ' s inadmissibility , pursuant to the Rules of Procedure .
Let me point out that the Council consulted Parliament on convening the Intergovernmental Conference and that the report by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen was entered on the agenda in accordance with the appropriate Rules .
Mr Ribeiro e Castro will present the motion .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , this report should not have been admitted .
It is generally anti what Europe really represents and anti most of what Europe has achieved .
Paragraph 15 of the motion for a resolution is a symptom of this aggressiveness towards Europe .
We are all attached to fundamental rights and the rule of law , starting here in this House .
So how can we agree when the fundamental right of recourse to the courts is being threatened ?
This is not a question of internal affairs , but external affairs of great importance .
We are Members of this House and we represent our electors .
These are the elements particularly under threat in this report which wants to interfere with and discriminate between the statutes of the political parties .
The very essence of Europe is under threat .
The fundamental right of recourse to the courts cannot be altered by anyone and nor can the rule of law .
Paragraph 15 ruins the whole text by defiling a very serious issue .
The temptation for those in power to act arbitrarily which this paragraph encourages is a clear illustration of the position taken in the rest of the report , and a terrible omen .
We therefore move the inadmissibility of this report which , in addition to having a dubious legal basis , was not properly prepared and does not enjoy the broad consensus which Europe must have .
This is evident in both the injudiciousness of this regrettable paragraph and the fact that 222 , I repeat 222 , amendments were tabled on this report .
Is there any better proof that this report is totally inappropriate ?
We therefore propose , in order to defend Europe and the rule of law , the immediate rejection of this report .
Thank you , Mr Ribeiro e Castro .
Does anyone wish to speak in favour of this request for referral back to committee ?
Madam President , I think Mr Ribeiro e Castro is quite right to consider the Dimitrakopoulos-Leinen report inadmissible because it conflicts with and even infringes a number of rights enshrined in our institutions .
First of all , Mr Ribeiro e Castro is right to single out paragraph 15 , which states that ' no actions may be brought in connection with the interna corporis affairs of the European Parliament . '
That statement clearly infringes the fundamental right of every citizen , and thus also of Members , to bring an action .
Thank you , Mr Berthu .
Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen , the two rapporteurs , wish to speak against this motion .
Other colleagues have tabled amendments with a view to voting against that paragraph , and Members may agree with those amendments .
To agree or not agree with a paragraph in a report is justified and democratic , and that is what we are here for .
But I do not think it is right to move that a report is inadmissible because of one paragraph .
I call on Members to vote against this motion .
We must examine and vote on the report during this part-session , because it is not a matter of voting for the two rapporteurs but of voting for the European Parliament ' s opinion .
Madam President , I am delighted that of all the groups , it is the UEN Group that is standing up for more fundamental rights and more democracy at European Union level .
I am pleased about that ; it is a major step forward .
However , I also believe that the strong language my fellow delegates are using is completely uncalled for .
The EU countries have completely different cultures .
In some countries Parliament can draw up its own rules of procedure and one does not have the option of going to the court of justice .
Some countries have a different system .
We have recital 15 . Mr Dimitrakopoulos has already mentioned that there are amendments .
The UEN Group are welcome to vote against them and then we will see if it is left in or taken out .
All in all , I believe that there is no call for excessively strong language , and I am also in favour of us rejecting this amendment .
Madam President , I do not think this amendment is something we can vote on , as the Treaty of Amsterdam makes express provision for the relationship between the institutions and the procedures to be framed differently .
In this respect , this report forms part of the implementation of the Treaty of Amsterdam , and one cannot vote on erroneous , legal proposed amendments , one can only reject them !
( Laughter and applause )
If you feel duty-bound to reject it , you will have an opportunity to do so .
I shall now put the motion presented by the Union for Europe of the Nations Group to the vote by roll call .
( Parliament rejected the procedural motion )
Madam President , Minister , Deputy Minister , Commissioner , we are at a really very important juncture so far as the vocation of the European Union is concerned .
The Intergovernmental Conference attempts to answer just that question .
The report you have before you today is significant in that it covers the following points . The first point is once again to consolidate the institutional nature of the European Union .
We repeat and insist that the European Union is both a union of states and a union of peoples .
It is precisely our acceptance of that principle which has guided the European Union towards the many successes we can mention , and which , of course , we all like to refer to from time to time .
The third basic principle safeguarded in the report is the proposal for a general - and I stress the word general - review of all the institutional bodies that make up the European Union .
For some , perhaps , that may be a risky proposal .
The fourth point concerns a number of new proposals , despite the fact that the issues to which they relate had always been debated .
I refer very specifically to closer cooperation .
We have taken a great many steps and we certainly can point to two examples of closer cooperation . The Schengen Agreement , and Economic and Monetary Union itself .
I would also like to see closer cooperation in foreign policy issues and others as well .
To put it clearly , closer cooperation is a Community process and both foreign policy and common defence policy issues should be dealt with as a Community process , because it provides control mechanisms .
Madam President , I am sure it will come as no surprise to you if I talk about citizens ' freedoms and rights and justice in relation to this fascinating report , whose two rapporteurs I congratulate .
It is the view of this Committee that the construction of this area of justice is important and , to this end , a reform of the Court of Justice is necessary .
In order to reform the Court it will be necessary to amend the Treaty , so that the Statute and the Regulations of the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance become operative .
None of them is currently operative .
Our first demand is therefore that qualified majority be established with the assent of the European Parliament .
With regard to the Court , Parliament also asks to be able to participate in the process of selecting judges as already happens with the posts in the constitutional courts in our states .
We want to see a reform of Articles 230 and 300 of the Treaty so that Parliament is on an equal footing with the Commission and the Council as far as appeals are concerned .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , the Court of Justice needs to be properly armed in order to be able to cope with the growing number of disputes , as well as its ever expanding authority .
The Court must be able to focus on the real legal issues and legal protection of EU subjects .
The Court of First Instance must be better accommodated in this framework , and both jurisdictions must be able to take more autonomous decisions regarding their own structures and procedures .
Sound and timely administration of justice is a vital component of the constitutional state .
In the light of this , the role of the European Parliament should be upgraded to that of a fully-fledged legislative body and that of a fully-fledged European institution .
These are , in a nutshell , the motives underlying the opinion issued by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market .
As rapporteur , I am also delighted to note that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is on the same wavelength for the greater part of its principal report .
Unfortunately , time constraints prevent me from going into any detail .
As some of these amendments are also to be found in the opinions of other committees , I believe that these amendments deserve - and will probably receive - the support of the entire Parliament .
This is why we need to seize this opportunity with both hands to prepare the European Union , with all its institutions and in all fields , to face the challenges of the 21st century successfully .
, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets .
( ES ) Madam President , the conditions of my intervention in this plenary session are illustrative of the budgetary problem .
I have just hurried from a meeting which , according to the Treaty , does not exist .
I am participating , on behalf of Parliament , in the tripartite dialogue on the budget to set the budgetary guidelines .
This is precisely the point we have raised on behalf of the Committee on Budgets .
It is the adaptation of the Treaty , Article 272 in particular , to the real situation .
We have spent twelve years practising with a timetable set by the interinstitutional agreements .
Specifically , we must simplify the procedure in order to prevent the blocking of the budgetary procedure .
When there are 25 members , the current procedure will not work .
We should simplify it while respecting the existing balances of power .
Lastly , Madam President , we also believe that Parliament , as an institution embodying democratic legitimacy , must fully participate in the decisions on own resources .
I would like to raise two points .
Firstly , my Committee is of the opinion that in the field of trade policy , the European Community ' s authority and also , therefore , the European Commission ' s negotiating mandate must be reinforced .
My second point concerns energy . The Commission has concluded that a coherent European energy policy has been lacking in the past .
There are no clear guidelines on institutional mechanisms for defining a common energy policy , let alone cooperation to guarantee the supply of energy or in terms of the environmental aspects of energy policy .
With a view to sustainable development , a new chapter on energy policy must be included in the Treaty , as well as the relevant sections of the ECSC and EURATOM Treaties .
In addition , the European Parliament powers must be adequately enhanced .
This means that the codecision procedure needs to apply to the EURATOM Treaty too .
It will specifically need to apply to the drafting of minimum safety standards for the design , construction and operation of nuclear reactors within the Union .
So far , the Member States have had their own technical standards and regulations .
In the light of Central and Eastern countries joining the EU , it is vital that uniform , European safety standards for nuclear reactors be drafted .
Unfortunately , my proposal to this effect has not been included in the current report .
I would therefore urge you most emphatically to vote for Amendment No 60 which I have tabled on behalf of my group , so that uniform safety standards can be drawn up for nuclear reactors .
We owe this to our citizens .
It is very important to mention the social market economy , as already indicated by Mr von Wogau .
It provides a kind of framework for internal policy which we need and renders a whole raft of discussions redundant .
I believe that this results in satisfaction all round .
The second major point is the Union ' s legal personality . It has been formulated here as if it were only related to foreign policy but it also has enormous significance for internal policy .
Indeed , it then becomes possible to ratify a number of Treaties , such as ILO Treaties and some UN Treaties in the social field , which will add legal clarity to this type of issue .
There are nonetheless two points that are lacking .
One of them is the issue of Article 137 ( 6 ) which , in my opinion , should be repealed .
There are also a number of amendments on the table which I hope will yet be added .
I would like to finish off with a remark on the issue of the tax policy . The report , in fact , mentions very little about this .
It is rather a pity , in my opinion , that we talk about it so little .
Maybe we will do so in future .
The policy is implicitly included in the report but I still think that , in a sense , not dealing with it now is a missed opportunity .
That does not , however , detract from the deep appreciation which we have for this report .
Madam President , the proposals by the Committee on Women ' s Rights for the Intergovernmental Conference aim to enhance democracy and effectiveness .
For that reason we are proposing that the Treaty should include a uniform and cohesive legal base for equality between the sexes , which will include all policy sectors .
- ( PT ) Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , the work in the Intergovernmental Conference has been intensive .
It must enable the next holder of the Council presidency , which will be France , to continue developing this work and to reach a decision by the end of the year .
The issue tackled at the last IGC meeting was the question of extending qualified majority voting .
The Member States demonstrated a certain openness towards this but many have still not made a definitive decision .
Certain areas can already be identified on which the attitude of the large majority of Member States is that these should remain subject to the unanimity rule .
Debates on these issues reveal that there is actually significant reticence , although this may be overcome during the IGC .
The preparatory work carried out to date has also involved questions connected with the European Parliament , the courts , the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee .
As regards the decision-making procedure in the European Parliament , there is broad consensus that no revision of the Treaty should be effected which involves changing the existing institutional balance .
As for the scope of codecision , there is some openness towards extending this procedure to all legislative acts adopted by qualified majority without , however , establishing any kind of systematic correlation .
With regard to the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance , a group of friends of the Council presidency has been brought together to examine possible amendments to the Treaty relating to these two courts .
The study of possible amendments to the Treaty in respect of the Court of Auditors , the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions has also been started .
Many consider that changes should only be made where strictly necessary to ensure the effective functioning of the European Union after enlargement .
Consideration has also been given to matters which may be included on the agenda of the IGC , on the Council presidency ' s proposal .
With regard to other issues likely to be added to the IGC ' s work , an initial debate has been held based on a list drawn up by the Council presidency .
On the issue of the size and composition of the Commission , there is a consensus that the Commission to emerge from this IGC must be strong , independent and legitimate . Its collegiate nature must be preserved .
With regard to the individual responsibility of Commissioners , there is general support for keeping the undertaking currently made by each Commissioner to stand down when asked to do so by the Commission President .
The delegations are divided into those which want to keep the informality of this undertaking and those which want the process to be enshrined in the Treaty .
As for the Commission ' s collective responsibility as a college , there is some reluctance to accept alterations to the current institutional framework , with the current supervision exercised by the European Parliament being regarded as sufficient .
The idea submitted by this House of the Commission being able to request a vote of confidence in it was positively welcomed .
The EU is just as much a union of peoples as it is of states .
As for specific mechanisms to be established for the future system , there is also a split between those who defend a double-majority system and those who prefer simple reweighting .
One recurring argument is that the reform should be acceptable to public opinion and likely to be ratified by the national parliaments .
With regard to closer cooperation , the need or the usefulness for the IGC to tackle this issue was also discussed in an informal debate .
Again there was a division of opinion both about the possibility of this issue being discussed and about the scope and nature of any alterations .
The next informal meeting of the Representatives Group on 14 and 15 April in Sintra , Portugal , will deal specifically with this issue which is problematic as there are no examples to follow .
Although this issue comes up time and again , it is very abstract .
With regard to making the existing model more flexible , as supported in particular by the Commission , a certain openness has been detected towards eliminating the recourse to the European Council when launching closer cooperation .
However , the limit of eight Member States has been questioned even by those who support altering the requirement for the participation of the majority of Member States .
Close contact has been maintained with the Commission and the European Parliament .
In the latter case , this has been through both the participation of your President and two selected Members and the regular information provided to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and this House .
Mr President , with the Dimitrakopoulos - Leinen report under discussion , the European Parliament is declaring its great vision for the European Union of the future .
This is a truly historic moment , as has been stressed .
Our fellow-citizens are waiting to be told what we are going to demand from the Intergovernmental Conference for that future .
Institutional proposals on particular issues without prior clarification of the basic philosophy of tomorrow ' s Union of 27 are not convincing .
The draft resolution is therefore quite right to define that basic view in the form of three principles .
According to the draft , the European Union is , first and foremost , a Union of peoples and a Union of states .
Its citizens therefore have both a European and a national identity .
Secondly , it is based on an institutional equilibrium between large and small states .
That must not be just on paper .
Thirdly , the way the Union functions must be made more effective , so that it can cope with the major enlargement .
The above philosophical principles , to which the draft resolution remains faithful , are not metaphysical inventions of the European Parliament but arise from the history and from the political reality which we call the area of Europe .
Anyone who ignores that is building a Europe founded on sand .
The Intergovernmental Conference of 2000 is taking place to make the Union as effective as is required in view of the major enlargement that has been decided .
In this process Parliament ' s responsibility is very great indeed .
For that reason , Parliament ' s approval of enlargement cannot but depend on the adequacy of the institutional changes that will be decided .
That is not a threat , it is a declaration of responsible attitude .
In good faith , all sides are trying , by means of amendments , to make the way in which European Union functions more effective .
But is it enough for procedures to be simplified and speeded up for them to be described as effective ?
The effectiveness of a police service , which indeed demands both simplicity and speed , is quite different from the effectiveness of the fundamental institutions of a democratic public regime .
The effectiveness of democratic institutions is not measured either with a stopwatch , or according to the number of decisions taken . It is measured by the degree of legitimacy .
The dual legitimacy of the European Union by its European but also its national citizens , by its peoples but also its states , makes the European Union institutionally complex by its very nature .
For that reason the extent to which these procedures can be simplified and speeded up is restricted by the whole complex system of dual legitimacy .
We must bear that in mind tomorrow , when we come to vote on the amendments and the text .
Mr President , within our groups in Parliament and within the IGC itself we are still struggling with the problems that proved fairly intractable at Amsterdam .
These issues are tricky because they expose both the exaggerated self-importance of small states and the folie de grandeur of the big states .
These issues can only be resolved by a greater sense of trust between partners - such trust that is the essential glue of successful federal pacts .
This trust is precisely the quality that is needed so that we are able to ensure the successful accession of the new Member States .
The Liberal Group supports the efforts of the presidency and of the Commission to build up the extra trust required .
We support the main thrust of this report .
In this respect the splitting of the Treaties is vital .
So is retention of unanimity within the Council exclusively for the most serious questions .
Liberals everywhere support ministers that will subscribe to the development of European parliamentary democracy .
But we will be savage critics of those who prefer narrow self-interest and threaten the accession of new Member States .
Mr President , the European Parliament does not take part in Intergovernmental Conference negotiations .
It plays a secondary role , as do all those who are not part of a national government .
The governments have one sole objective : to reach a unanimous agreement in Nice , whatever the outcome , so that they do not have to move on to some other city as obscure as Maastricht .
This report only partly achieves this objective , and this is why our Group was not able to be unanimous in its final assessment .
We consider that the insistence on maintaining the limit on the number of Members at 700 , even when we become a 20-State Europe , unnecessarily penalises the regions and those whose political orientations are neither socialist nor conservative .
In this regard , we hope that our amendment will find consensus in the House .
The Group is divided over double majority , closer cooperation , the number of Commissioners and security policy .
In particular , as regards the subject of the number of Commissioners , we will support the balanced position of those amendments which ensure both sufficient representation of the Member States and the efficiency of the Commission .
Mr President , our Group wishes to thank the rapporteurs , Messrs Dimitrakopoulos and Leinen , for the important work which they have carried out .
I must also tell them that , within my group , there are differing views , according to differing national experiences .
I will say the same thing here that I have said in my group : the debate is not whether we say yes or no to federalism .
The debate is how to go about European construction at the point of enlargement .
It is making sure that we do not just build a Europe of the States and a Europe of the people , but , especially , a Europe of the citizens .
We must create a fully democratic institutional fabric .
We know that there are democratic deficits and that they are considerable .
At the moment the challenge in the face of enlargement is to achieve , as the rapporteurs have said , greater efficiency and greater democracy .
The Intergovernmental Conference cannot end with the same disappointment that we had in Amsterdam .
We cannot create an Amsterdam 2 .
We have to create a Treaty which gives rise to genuine European construction in which more than 400 million Europeans can share economic prosperity , a social dimension and a democratic life .
This is the great challenge for the European institutions and for European politics .
My vision of European construction is compatible with the fundamental lines which are laid out in the report which we are discussing today .
It is , of course , necessary to give the Commission the powers it needs and make it responsible to Parliament . This is precisely the issue .
We must clearly define the different democratic powers in the field of European competences and we must know who is making decisions and to whom they are responsible .
Mr President , Parliament does not take a corporate position .
Our minimum demand is that Parliament be treated as an adult which has to request that the Commission take certain responsibilities , but which also has to participate actively in European construction on behalf of the European citizens .
On behalf of the European citizens , we have to ask today not only for that fine-tuning of decision making but also for the incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the Treaty .
The Charter of Fundamental Rights must give citizens the capacity to demand compliance with these rights in the European courts .
This is the position which we can adopt in our Group , asking for more efficiency and more democracy .
Mr President , in our view the European Parliament ' s proposals for the Intergovernmental Conference , as set out in the Dimitrakopoulos-Leinen report , are a misinterpretation .
What we urgently need today , on the eve of enlargement , is not to deepen the integration of the existing Member States at a faster rate .
It is not to trot out the old federalist recipes of the European Movement yet again .
It is not to propose a super-State again , with its own constitution , uniform rules and majority decisions .
Unfortunately , it would seem that the latest debates within the most well-informed groups of society stop at the doors of this Parliament .
In this matter , as in the case of the Charter of Fundamental Rights , our Parliament seems unable to depart from the federalist line it has been pursuing for many years .
That approach leads to an impasse , to what Mr Tsatsos a moment ago , if I understood him rightly , called a Europe built on sand .
More generally , the rigid federalist approach reflects a more or less unconscious desire to set up institutional barriers against enlargement , which will once again call in question a whole range of long-standing patterns of behaviour .
We must adopt a more positive approach .
Mr President , in Denmark there is a concept known as asset stripping .
Top class lawyers and accountants are being convicted one after the other because they have helped strip companies of assets and then left them with tax liabilities .
Asset stripping is a punishable offence .
The Intergovernmental Conference is designed to strip our constitutions and fundamental laws of assets and leave the voters with a democratic deficit , but constitution stripping of this kind is not punished .
The asset under our constitutions is the right of voters to be heard and to choose representatives who can pass laws on our behalf .
If we are dissatisfied with the laws , we can choose new representatives and obtain new laws .
This is the beating heart of our democracies , a heart which , because of the constitution strippers , will stop beating .
They are taking legislative power from our 15 national parliaments and transferring it to officials and ministers , from voters and elected representatives to the executive and from open assemblies to meetings behind closed doors in Brussels .
Electoral power is being transferred from our constitutions , but is not being transferred to the European Parliament .
We parliamentarians have been side-tracked .
Power lies with the Commission and the Council of Ministers .
The EU is not a parliamentary democracy , and the national parliaments have been still further marginalised .
A number of us in this House have therefore prepared 19 proposals for democratic reform of the EU .
We call the initiative SOS Democracy - " SOS " because it is a matter of urgency and " Democracy " because that is the heart of the problem .
We do not have democracy in today ' s EU . We should like to have it in tomorrow ' s .
We have different opinions as to how the laws should look .
We have support across the political spectrum from communists to conservatives . We disagree about a lot but agree that our differences should be resolved in democratic parliaments .
The voters in our countries should always have the last word .
We reject any attempt to strip our constitutions of democratic content and we urge the public to get involved in the negotiations concerning the Nice Treaty before it is too late .
Join us in SOS Democracy .
Mr President , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , Commissioner , I am speaking as draftsman of the opinion of this Parliament ' s Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism .
We would like to make three points .
Firstly , the active recognition of the role , protagonism and participation of the regions in the process of European construction which began 50 years ago .
Secondly , the importance of transport .
To this end , we want an extended Article 70 and we also want it to be supplemented with a provision on the creation of a single European agency for air traffic control .
Lastly , the role of tourism for both the economy and for employment .
We - or at least I personally - accept Amendment No 168 , presented by the chairman of the Committee on Regional Policy on this issue .
Mr President , I would first of all like to express my appreciation for the sterling work carried out by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen .
I believe that this is one of the best reports which have so far been produced in the framework of IGCs over recent years .
I am making this statement as former rapporteur on the Maastricht Treaty .
By the way , Maastricht is not a strange city , Mrs Frassoni , it is a very exciting city where the Dutch-Flemish , German and French cultures all flow into one .
Just try one of the pavement cafs and you will see what I mean .
I will repeat this to Mrs Frassoni in Italian some time .
Mr President , it is rather a shame that so many amendments have been tabled as this might affect the quality and balance of the report .
The large groups should , therefore , restrict themselves to the absolutely necessary amendments during the vote . This seems the best way to retain the good work which the rapporteurs have put in .
As far as our Group is concerned , the resolution needs to be amended on a number of points .
For example , we do not agree with the proposal in the resolution to restrict the number of Commissioners to 20 and to introduce a rota system for the smaller countries .
One Commissioner per Member State seems a much better solution to us .
In order to boost citizens ' confidence in the European Commission , it is vital that each Member State should have a Commission Member .
Our Group , too , has therefore tabled amendments to this effect .
Next is the number of MEPs . The resolution argues in favour of the possibility of European lists .
It is important that we retain a maximum of 700 , with or without the European list .
Parliament is already vast , the buildings are already packed and the whole thing has to remain workable .
The third point concerns the issue of unanimity .
We believe that in an enlarged Union , decision-making should not always be blocked by an excessive right of veto .
Unanimity should , therefore , be restricted to the bare essentials . These are constitutional issues such as the deployment of military troops and issues pertaining to territorial integrity .
All other decisions should be taken by qualified majority with weighted voting , as is proposed , and - this is vitally important - with colegislative powers exercised by Parliament .
We would also thank the Commission for this support .
I would like to end by commenting on the Charter of Fundamental Rights .
According to our Group , it is of paramount importance that this Charter be included in the Treaty .
Work to this effect is being carried out , and we sincerely hope that a text can be produced which everyone can agree to incorporate into the Treaty .
This is a key issue for the citizens of Europe .
This debate is going on between political and national groups in different Member States .
Please allow me to make a correction , Mr President : there are no large and small countries here .
Here we must consider ourselves to be small . In the past , the countries in Europe which considered themselves to be large tried to impose their hegemony by force .
Here were are all amongst small countries , especially given the challenge of globalisation .
I believe this should be an important element in our coexistence .
Therefore , this is an important debate and I believe the Council should take account of the position we take .
Secondly , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , Commissioner , I believe we should also try to introduce some vision and some idealism into this debate .
I have always been against the idea that we had to deal with the ' leftovers ' from Amsterdam .
Leftovers are thrown in the bin .
A final consideration : Commissioner Barnier has said that , before the end of the Conference , we must resolve certain problems relating to the chain of command .
Mr President , in relation to the appeal to public opinion which we are making , I believe we must clearly affirm the principles of democracy and transparency and also the chain of command .
We must not allow a situation where , while we are discussing this , a kind of Loch Ness monster reappears every month in the press .
Here , the only risk involved in democracy is the risk taken in elections .
This is the risk taken by Minister Gama , Commissioner Barnier and by all of us .
I believe that it is important for all of the institutions to confront this issue responsibly .
If not , the Intergovernmental Conference will not have been a success for our future .
Mr President , the EU is faced with enormous challenges .
In just a few years ' time , the Union is to be enlarged to include almost double the number of Member States .
The euro is to be introduced .
We are to have a security policy worthy of the name , implement administrative reforms and , hopefully , win back some of the confidence our citizens have lost in the European project .
The Intergovernmental Conference should prepare the EU for these changes .
It provides us with the opportunity to adapt our work to the new Member States and to the new tasks we have before us .
It is a question of finding a balance between democracy and efficiency and of maintaining the historic balance between small and large countries .
These are the questions which remain following the conclusion of the Treaty of Amsterdam .
It is important in these discussions not to become lost in technical details and lose sight of the goal - that of making the EU more open , more efficient and more intelligible .
We must all make sacrifices in order to achieve this goal .
Unfortunately , governments appear to have lost sight of this goal .
The Intergovernmental Conference is making only limited progress , which is not the fault of the Portuguese Presidency .
Probably what will happen is what usually happens : at five minutes to midnight on the last day , a compromise will be reached with which no-one is entirely satisfied .
The talk is already of the next Intergovernmental Conference where the major questions will then be solved .
We have heard this before .
There is starting to be a surfeit of half-baked intergovernmental conferences .
Our citizens have higher expectations than that , and we do not have much time .
That is why we have to take the opportunity now .
The EU must be changed in the way we Liberals have demanded , that is to say in the direction of transparency , public control , more explicit accountability , a clearer distribution of competences and a common constitution .
Quite simply , the EU must become more liberal .
The report includes many of our amendments , and I support these with few exceptions .
The challenges faced by the EU are exciting and historic .
They should inspire us all to roll up our shirt sleeves .
We are in a position to create something unique : democratic , competitive and peaceful cooperation throughout the continent .
Instead , however , of awakening hope and enthusiasm , present developments appear , rather , to be giving rise to anxiety among governments .
One might well ask what has become of political leadership and vision .
I am convinced that this transformation of the EU into a federal state is a blind alley in every way .
The EU ' s major problem today is not a lack of centralised power but a shortage of real democracy .
Through the Treaty changes proposed in the resolution , the EU would become a Union wholly dominated by the big Member States .
The power wielded by the major countries would be increased dramatically through the introduction of a system of " double simple majority " voting in the Council of Ministers .
Their power would also be increased through the increase in their representation in the European Parliament .
This would mean that , in many Member States , important political powers would not be represented at EU level .
This also shows how weak the democratic basis of such a Parliament would be .
Compared with other federal states , the " EU state " would , on this model , be unusually centralised and offer little protection to small constituent States .
A comparison might be made with the United States in which the one chamber in a two-chamber system has proportional representation , while representation in the second chamber is the same for all constituent States .
In the EU , the big countries would instead dominate both chambers on the basis of the proposal we are now debating .
For anyone who wants to change anything regarding monetary union or EMU , it is now , when the Treaty is being changed , that the opportunity exists .
It is noticeable that they are now completely silent and that it is now only the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left which is demanding the democratisation of monetary union .
As you have perhaps noted , I am going to vote against the present resolution .
( The President cut the speaker off )
Mr President , I support the enlargement of the European Union because I know it will consolidate the new democracies in eastern and central Europe .
I know it will also increase the size of the European Union as a trading block which in time will ensure that the Union as an economic entity becomes more competitive .
I know that reform within the existing European institutions must take place .
However , any changes within the internal decision-making procedures must be balanced and fair .
We do not want to see a two-tier European Union in which larger Member States dictate the pace at the expense of the smaller Member States .
For example , the report which we are debating today recommends a rotation system for the composition of the European Commission .
This will mean that the automatic entitlement of smaller Member States to have one Member of the Commission will be downgraded .
I do not believe that this is a particularly sensible proposal .
380 million citizens of the Union have an affinity with the Commission .
Certainly , from an Irish perspective , Irish people recognise the importance of the Commission as an institutional body within the European Union .
It is still the institution that controls the operations of competition policy , the common agricultural policy , the common fisheries policy and the common transport policy .
The Union must draw nearer to the citizens of the Union .
We should also remember that some Member States , including my country , must hold a referendum on any Treaty changes that arise at the forthcoming IGC .
The loss of an automatic right to nominate a Commissioner would certainly be a very difficult , if not impossible , proposal to sell to an Irish electorate in this referendum .
I would now like to return to the issue of extending the qualified majority voting system at European Council level .
The report we are discussing today seeks to extend qualified majority voting to all legislative activities except those of a constitutional nature .
I believe that national Member States should retain the right of veto on taxation matters .
The Irish taxation system is innovative in many ways and has contributed to our present growth rates .
I do not believe that the extension of qualified majority voting to taxation matters at European Council level is a particularly welcome development .
Mr President , a biblical parable teaches the reader to build his house on a rock .
After all , a house built on sand has no solid foundations .
This parable was meant as a reference to faith and its foundations .
Nonetheless , I was reminded of this parable during the IGC discussion .
The relentless attempts to turn Europe into a political unity seem to be built on quicksand .
Indeed , the citizens of Europe do not feel European and this will not change overnight .
Still , the discussion on the EU ' s future is peppered with concepts such as European citizenship .
This does not exist by any stretch of the imagination and is simply quicksand !
In the IGC discussion or the present report for that matter , the end goal of European cooperation is not taken into consideration .
What do we want to achieve as a European Union ?
I would be keen to hear the Council ' s and Commission ' s opinion on this .
If there is a well-considered vision on the foundation of European cooperation , the European House will be on more solid ground and will be able to brave the bad weather .
I share the minority view of Mr Berthu , a member of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group , as it has been included in this report .
This document does include a solid foundation for the Union , namely a cooperative of independent states , in which the national democracies enjoy the highest level of legitimacy .
Regarding the enlargement issue , the fact that Member States joining the EU can become fully-fledged Members of the Union should be central .
" Degrading " acceding countries to second-class members does not do them justice and has unwanted political consequences .
Instead of the idea of different speeds , I support the idea of carrying out only the core tasks , that is to say in cross-border policy areas , at European level .
Another specific point I would like to raise concerns the European Commission .
This high official college should in future not have more or fewer than 20 members .
If necessary , combinations of countries can alternate in appointing a Euro Commissioner .
I support the policy of granting the European Parliament codecision in all cases in which the Council decides by qualified majority .
This must , however , go hand in hand with sound scrutiny by the national parliaments of their " own " ministers in the Council .
President , Commissioner , we are faced with a fundamental difficulty , in the exercise in which we are involved , in maintaining the balance between enlarging the EU and reforming the institutions to make that enlargement possible .
British Conservatives cannot accept the report , based on the long list of ancillary items which are not on the agenda of the IGC .
These are just some examples of the complex and controversial issues which are raised .
We are overloading the wish list of the IGC .
The great danger , if all these extra items were to be adopted on the agenda , is that the deadline of December 2000 would inevitably be missed .
Where would that leave the candidate countries like Poland and Hungary , whose government leaders have already expressed concern over the timetable ?
We believe the IGC should concentrate on the essential institutional reforms .
If the EU delays enlargement too long , it may make it more difficult , or impossible , for some candidate countries to join within the envisaged timetable .
The President-in-Office addressed some of these concerns in his speech .
Commissioner Barnier in his speech said that the intention is to succeed with the reforms , not necessarily to conclude them .
Some people say that this is the last opportunity for reform .
Our priority is enlargement .
We should not confuse or reverse our priorities .
Mr President , my group welcomes this report .
The report puts forward ambitious proposals , as one would expect of the European Parliament .
If adjusted by the amendments by my group , it will be a well-balanced set of proposals , well-balanced notably on the delicate question of the equilibrium between large and smaller Member States .
On the size of the Commission , for instance , the formulas that are likely to be adopted tomorrow will refer either to one Commissioner per Member State or to a smaller number , a fixed number of Commissioners .
The Commission cannot go on expanding indefinitely .
In the second case , it will be a rotating system , so that every Member State , large and small , has equal opportunities of seeing one of its nationals serve in the Commission .
On the question of the size of the European Parliament , we have also found a point of equilibrium , based on to a minimum number of Members for each Member State .
Every state will , of course , have to make a sacrifice following enlargement , but a minimum number will be guaranteed , with digressive proportionality thereafter .
So the report is balanced and I think can be welcomed .
It is ambitious .
Some people are saying : ' The IGC will never agree to this point or to that point ' .
That is essential for our future .
Mr President , the aim of the IGC is to reconcile enlargement with deepening .
In particular , we need to review the interinstitutional balance , representation within the Commission and the other institutions , the weighting of votes and the areas covered by qualified majority voting .
Unanimity voting must apply to decisions of a constitutional and fundamental nature .
Closer cooperation must make it possible to manage diversity and avoid getting bogged down , without calling the fundamental structure of the Union into question .
The report by our fellow Members , whom I want to congratulate , has been substantially improved over the course of the discussions .
Nonetheless , the outlined reform will hit the small Member States hardest .
That applies in particular to the provisions on the composition and operation of the institutions .
A Parliament in which the ceiling of four seats per Member State , which does not allow for a balanced representation of the political forces , is unacceptable .
Lastly , let me bring up the question of the seat of Parliament and call for the promise made to be respected .
Mr President , we , for our part , welcome the enlargement of Europe and will participate in the discussion of how to prepare for it .
That is something which the parties of European Free Alliance have in common and our votes will be cast in that light .
I want to draw attention particularly to Amendment No 138 , in its interaction with paragraph 32 of the Dimitrakopoulos-Leinen report .
As it is now voting time , the debate will be adjourned and will resume at 3 p.m.
VOTE
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
( The President declared the common position approved )
Simplified procedure without report :
( Parliament approved the Commission proposal )
( Parliament approved the Commission proposal )
( The President declared the common position approved )
( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
Wallstrm , Commission .
Mr President , as I explained during the debate yesterday , the Commission is able to accept fully Amendments Nos 9 , 17 , 19 , 29 and 47 .
Some of these amendments need only to be brought into line with the legal wording of the text of the directive and the overall legislative framework .
For other amendments , for instance those amendments concerning antibiotic-resistant marker genes , the principle is politically acceptable but the proposed text as such does not seem to be appropriate .
The Commission is unable to accept Amendments Nos 5 to 7 , 10 , 12 to 16 , 18 , 20 to 23 , 25 to 28 , 30 to 34 , 39 to 45 , 50 and 51 .
More specifically concerning Amendments Nos 22 , 23 and 25 , the Commission cannot accept them as they stand but is willing to consider how due account can be taken of the concerns they reflect .
Mr President , I have a question for the Commission , so as to make it quite clear to my fellow delegates what we are voting about .
I have the Council ' s common position of 9 December 1999 before me .
It says in the document passed to us by the Council that this common position was adopted unanimously .
If I remember correctly , we were still under the Finnish Council Presidency in December 1999 , with a Green Environment Minister .
Political Union took place in June 1999 , under the German Council Presidency , also with a green Environment Minister .
However , I am a little confused because the Greens in this House are maintaining that the common position is so weak that it is imperative that we make a huge number of improvements to it .
That is why I wanted to put the question again as to whether we are really voting on the common position that all the Environment Ministers subscribed to , or whether we are mistaken ?
( Laughter , Applause )
Thank you , Mr Liese .
May I remind you that the debate is closed . Nevertheless I will give the floor to the Commission if it wishes to clarify the matter further .
It is that very common position .
Mr President , since Mr Liese has addressed a question to us , I will take the liberty of answering him .
The Green Group is not dependent on the positions of the Green ministers represented in the Environment Council .
We have freedom of choice , and I would hope the same applies to all the political groups here present .
So I believe it would be more logical to vote first on the amendment that departs furthest from the original position .
Mr Lannoye , the rapporteur discussed this question with the competent services yesterday .
He does not seem to agree with you .
In fact he believes that the wording of Amendment No 11 is such as to suggest a different voting order from the one you recommend .
I can only regret that .
After the vote on Amendments Nos 38 and 49 : President .
We will now adjourn the vote and resume after the formal sitting .
( The sitting was suspended at 12 noon for the formal sitting and resumed at 12.35 p.m. )
Mr President , I understand perfectly that it is an honour for us to receive a distinguished guest of state .
I would urge you to address this matter in the Bureau .
I am happy to put this question to the Bureau , Mrs Roth-Behrendt , but I was bound by decisions outside my control .
Mr President , just before the formal sitting you interrupted this vote very suddenly .
It rather surprised me , and I am sure many other Members of the House , who during the formal sitting expressed their surprise at the way in which the vote was interrupted .
We have just seen the first vote after the formal sitting fail to secure a qualified majority by only a handful of votes .
Does that not demonstrate what we were talking about and the point Mrs Roth-Behrendt has raised ?
When we have qualified majority votes they should not be interrupted in any way by the formal sitting .
There were eight votes to go .
I can inform you , on the basis of my experience , that you could have completed that in three minutes .
It is ridiculous that we are now proceeding with qualified majority votes when Members have not been given a reasonable amount of time to come back into the Chamber .
I hope you could address that issue , Mr President .
I quite understand your feelings , Mr Bowe .
To tell the truth , I agree with you .
But I also had to respect the protocol which , once again , unfortunately often takes precedence over our proceedings .
That said , it is true that your comment makes good sense and I think the Bureau will have to give it the fullest consideration .
Mr President , I have a question about the method applied here .
I did not hear that bell and I would ask you to confirm the method used in such cases , for this probably adversely affected the result of the vote in this Chamber .
Mr President , if the problem about sounding the bell is that the sitting has to resume first , the solution is quite simple .
I propose to the President that we suspend the sitting for two minutes .
For it is unacceptable ...
( Applause )
Once again , Mrs Liepitz , I can only take note of the situation , deplore it like you and propose that we finally press on with the vote .
( The President declared the common position approved as amended )
( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
Joint motion for a resolution on the Lisbon Summit
( Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution )
Motion for a resolution ( B5-0322 / 2000 ) by Mr Cox and Mr Jensen , on behalf of the ELDR Group , on the outcome of the Extraordinary European Council in Lisbon on 23 and 24 March 2000
( Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution )
Motion for a resolution ( B5-0328 / 2000 ) by Mr Le Pen and others , on behalf of the TDI Group , on the Lisbon European Council
( Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution )
( Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution )
Motion for a resolution ( B5-0331 / 2000 ) by Mr Figueiredo and others , on behalf of the GUE / NGL Group , on the outcome of the Extraordinary European Council in Lisbon on 23 and 24 March
( Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution )
Motion for a resolution ( B5-0333 / 2000 ) by Mr Queir and others , on behalf of the UEN Group , on the outcome of the Extraordinary European Council in Lisbon on 23 and 24 March 2000
( Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution )
( Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution )
Motion for a resolution ( B5-0338 / 2000 ) by Mr Goebbels , on behalf of the PSE Group , on the meeting of the European Council ( Lisbon , 23 and 24 March 2000 )
( Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution )
Joint motion for a resolution on the EU-Africa summit
Before the vote
Mr President , an error has slipped into paragraphs 15 , 17 and 18 of this joint resolution of the European Union and Africa .
In paragraph 15 , instead of saying " the OAU " it should say " the African States " .
In section 17 , instead of " the OAU " it should say " Africa " .
In section 18 , " members of the OAU " should be replaced by " Africans " .
( Parliament agreed to vote on the oral amendment )
( Parliament adopted the resolution ) EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE
Resolution on the additionality principle
Mr President , I would like to give the following explanation of the vote that I cast in the debate concerning additionality .
This matter urgently calls for review by the Commission .
Since the debate - yesterday in fact - I have received a very courteous and helpful letter from Mr Barnier indicating that the Commission is moving our way on this .
I am very glad about that .
I should like to congratulate my colleague , Mrs Evans , for setting up this marvellous debate and getting this superb result today .
Mr President , I am delighted this resolution has been adopted by Parliament in recognition of the problem that exists with additionality .
As Commissioner Barnier has stated , it is as important to comply with the spirit of additionality as with the letter of the law .
I trust now that the Member States will comply with the wishes of Parliament and the Commission in this matter to ensure that the effective targeting of structural funds at the poorest regions is not undermined .
Paragraph A continues to confuse the principle of additionality with the separate but equally important principle of co-financing .
Paragraph G is inaccurate .
There is no regulatory requirement to check additionality on an annual basis , but as stated in the regulation , simplification requires three checks on additionality during the programming period .
It is inappropriate for Members to try with this resolution to rewrite regulations which were agreed unanimously by this Parliament and will be up for review in 2006 .
More disappointing is the naked party political games which British Members Mr Davies , Mr Bradbourn and Mrs Evans have attempted in this resolution .
This will not serve the best interests of our poorest communities , with deliberate misinformation and hijacking this debate for narrow party political advantage .
Our real goal must be to plan and give our support to the successful implementation of these funds to improve the life prospects of people in our poorest regions .
My party is committed to this goal and will work with other parties in a constructive and positive way to achieve this .
Agricultural statistics for the period 1993-2003
Mr President , of course , it is important , if not essential , for the European Union to be engaged in statistics .
However , this undertaking can sometimes be extremely harmful for certain States in our Union , take , for example , the milk quotas which have been so detrimental for so many areas of Europe .
Checks on the transport of dangerous goods by road
Mr President , I voted for this resolution because , clearly , the transport of dangerous goods is constantly in need of regulation .
We must do everything possible to reduce the number of vehicles carrying dangerous goods along the roads of Europe to a minimum .
The experience of workers who have been performing this activity for a substantial period of time should be recognised , and employment of the elderly in all the most hazardous activities should be promoted .
Recommendation for second reading : Bowe ( A5-0083 / 2000 )
Mr President , I feel that we should not be too alarmist in these matters , and that , with regard to genetically modified organisms , we should not hold back scientific progress with an excessive amount of regulations .
For this reason , in the interests of the elderly , I would call for less stringent regulation of GMOs .
Mr President , I want to give an oral explanation of vote because what has happened , once again , is not very good news for our Parliament .
Once again we have simply kowtowed to the lobby of the advocates of GMOs on the pretext that science will help to make the world a better place .
We know full well that as yet there is no toxicology study that evaluates the consequences of releasing GMOs into the environment .
So we can only regret that those amendments that went much further , that indeed allowed us to anticipate the implications of GMOs for nature , were not accepted .
- The European Parliament will vote on 12 April , to adopt a new directive on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs ) .
There are major issues at stake .
The time has come to make those who engage in the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms legally responsible for damage to human health and the environment .
The argument has been made that this issue should instead be covered by horizontal legislation .
It is worth noting , however , that we have heard this argument since discussions about Directive 90 / 220 / EEC first started in 1989 .
We must adopt an immediate and categorical ban on the use of antibiotic resistant genes .
In the common position antibiotic-resistant genes would just " be phased out " in the future , and only if " they may have any adverse effects on human health and the environment " .
This would mean that antibiotic-resistant products that have already been authorised would remain .
There are many less damaging forms of marker genes available and it is EU policy to prohibit all unnecessary use of antibiotics if there is a risk for human or animal health .
The directive should take a clear stand and insist that the use of these marker genes is stopped now .
The pharmaceutical industry wants a total exemption from the directive .
It is unacceptable that the industry could be allowed on exemption unless the environmental risk provisions apply .
- ( FR ) I am extremely disappointed at the way the second-reading vote on the amendments to the draft directive on procedures for authorising genetically modified organisms ( GMOs ) went .
Admittedly , we have known since first reading that the principle of banning GMOs , or at least having a moratorium to allow for more in-depth studies , was rejected .
But the least we could have expected was for Parliament now to decide to take serious steps to protect the consumer .
Nothing of the kind has happened , however .
The European Parliament has just given way on three vital issues , in circumstances I consider shameful :
On banning the release of GMOs containing antibiotic-resistant genes : Amendments Nos 11 and 37 which called for such GMOs not to be released into the environment were rejected .
On the risk of unintentional gene -transfers to other organisms : Amendment No 12 , which called for measures to be taken to prevent such unintentional transfers , was not adopted .
Instead , Parliament adopted Amendment No 38 , which is much more vague and simply calls for an assessment of the various forms of risk that might be involved in such transfers ;
Alas , as we already know from the White Paper it prepared on the subject , the Commission is not in favour of compulsory insurance in this area .
We are particularly disgusted that Amendment No 33 was rejected , for if we want to authorise the marketing of products containing GMOs , we should at least ensure that those who sell them assume liability .
The pressure groups in the biotechnology industry explain that there is no risk , while at the same time saying that compulsory insurance is impossible because the risk is not insurable .
That tells us something . I have never seen an insurer refuse to insure a non-existent risk .
One obscure aspect of this business is that the French Government which , according to the most recent information , includes ecologists , had officially expressed reservations about this Amendment No 33 .
Once again the biotechnology industry pressure groups have done their job at every level , out of sight of the citizens .
I warmly congratulate Mr Bowe on his report on the deliberate release into the environment of GMOs .
Yet this is a positive first step , since it has led several large firms to stop putting GMOs into their products .
In the light of the progress of scientific research in this field , it seemed vital to clarify the scope of this legislation in order to give due protection to consumer health as also to the environment .
The proposals of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy set out a strict and transparent framework , thus responding fully to consumer concerns .
The purpose of the three main amendments I support is as follows :
to prevent any accidental contamination of fields by cross-pollination between GMO and non-GMO crops .
to prevent any risk of antibiotic resistance developing as a result of the transfer of the resistant gene from one species to another .
So we must ban the release of all GMOs containing an antibiotic-resistant marker gene ;
to impose a strict liability system on producers .
Like the rapporteur , I am convinced that the person legally responsible for releasing a GMO into the environment must assume full civil liability for any damage to human health or the environment .
This principle of responsibility , together with that of GMO traceability and , in particular , the precautionary principle , will enable us to limit the risks as far as possible !
Given the uncertainties that remain in this area , we must be as prudent as we can !
Let me conclude by repeating and emphasising that we must listen to what the people of Europe expect of us !
Public opinion has in fact expressed its reservations about the development of ' Frankenstein foods ' on several occasions and its desire for healthy and natural food .
So we must be the spokespeople of this desire to preserve high-quality food in the European Union !
It is good that the Council common position already incorporates some of the amendments approved by the European Parliament .
However , as proposed by the rapporteur , the amendments approved at first reading but not accepted by the Council must now be included .
Following the approval of the Biosafety Protocol in Montreal in January 2000 , we must take further steps to protect the rights of consumers and to re-establish their confidence .
- I welcome Mr Bowe ' s report as a balanced and considered approach to the important subject of the release into the environment of GMOs .
The three key issues covered in Mr Bowe ' s report are : environmental liability , antibiotics and gene transfer .
On environmental liability I tend to take the Commission ' s view that this is best dealt with through horizontal legislation .
On antibiotics I would be in favour of a ban on the use in GMOs of genes conferring antibiotic resistance .
As far as gene transfer is concerned I believe measures must be foreseen in the new Directive to control the release of GMOs which can outcross with other plants .
The path may one day prove to have led to something which is the total opposite of all the promises which were given when the journey was begun .
I want to issue this warning today .
The European Union needs new , tighter regulations in place of the first and still current directives concerning GMOs from 1991 .
Since 1998 , the Commission ' s proposals have been under discussion .
Further delays would be a mistake .
As a Swedish Christian Democrat Member of the European Parliament , I want to state that it must never be the GMO industry and economic interests which are allowed to govern legislation and regulations .
Our political decisions must instead be guided by the concept of stewardship and not by manipulation of the genetic code .
Our task is to hand the earth and the environment over to future generations in as good a state as possible .
- ( SV ) It is an important report which Parliament has voted on today .
There are many uncertainties surrounding the use of genetically modified organisms , and there is good reason for being very careful .
On important points , the Council has wished to introduce risk assessment , together with evaluation of the use of genetically modified organisms .
The Directive guarantees a high level of protection .
Where most of the points are concerned , I have been able to agree with the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy .
Where other points are concerned , however , other measures can justifiably be demanded .
In the case of genes expressing resistance to antibiotics , the Council ' s position makes continued research possible under strict conditions based upon environmental considerations and respect for the consumer .
Nothing is so enduring as the accidental .
I therefore consider it very important to devise general regulations governing liability for environmental damage .
Dealing separately with the GMO sector may lead to major differences in the regulations governing liability in different areas .
I do not , however , believe that investigations of that kind can be carried out annually . The EU ought not , therefore , to become inundated with reports on the matter .
- Madam President , I wholeheartedly applaud the efforts of my Labour colleague , David Bowe , to put forward measures to control the release of GMOs into the environment .
With such fast-changing science and a host of possible unknown effects , it is important to protect Europe ' s people and our environment .
Strict controls on plants to prevent the transfer of genes from GMOs to other species are crucial .
This will ensure that other species are protected .
We must put safety first and make sure that GMOs do not enter the food chain unseen by the back door .
Furthermore , those responsible for the release of GMOs should bear full financial liability for any damage to human health and the environment .
Industry should pay and face the consequences of its actions , not the man-on-the-street .
Europe should stand up for the rights of the citizen and force industry to take responsibility .
Of course , the health and well-being of our citizens is of paramount importance .
I say no to the release of GMOs resistant to antibiotics .
We must not put our people or our animals at unnecessary risk .
Labour Euro MPs have been at the forefront of protecting our citizens and our environment .
We have consistently backed proposals to ensure that the use of GMOs and products derived from GMOs are strictly controlled within the EU .
David Bowe ' s report is yet further proof of Europe greening up its act and putting the safety of our citizens first .
Papayannakis report ( A5-0088 / 2000 )
Mr President , I voted for the measure on the labelling of beef .
At last , we are going to be told the place of birth and residence of the cattle , and , doubtless , whether they were called Daisy or Buttercup .
All too often , the governments of our 15 States think of citizens , particularly pensioners and the elderly , as numbers , people without an identity , a life story or a date of birth .
Let us place photographs of our citizens inside all the bureaucratic files with which the States fill our offices .
Through this system , consumers can obtain information about the origin of the meat which they buy and the background of the animal can be checked .
Due to this improved link between producer and consumer , potential risks to public health can be detected at an early stage and avoided much more effectively .
It is essential that identical labelling rules are applied to beef imported from third countries .
If not all the information required by Community regulations is available , it is vital that a specific label is attached to the product clearly indicating its non-EC origin .
- I welcome Mr Papayannakis ' report on proposals for an EU-wide compulsory identification system for cows and the labelling of beef and beef products .
The main aim of the new regulation is to enable consumers to trace the source of the meat they buy right back to the animal .
This system should enable any potential threats to human health to be tackled early and effectively .
I support the rapporteur in stressing that the same rules must be applied to imported beef from non-EU countries and , in cases where not all information is available , a clear indication to that effect should be provided .
Mr Papayannakis is right to insist that labels mention antibiotics and stimulants that have been administered and to oppose derogation from the regulation for minced beef , beef trimmings or cut beef .
Properly applied this regulation will go a long way to enhance the reputation , quality and safety of EU beef - good news for consumers and producers !
Consumers need to have confidence in the food they eat .
In this case , the aim is not simply to change our tastes and our traditions in regard to chocolate , but to deal properly at last with the consequences of " mad cow " disease .
It is quite astounding that , given the gravity of the situation , today , so many years after the crisis , we still do not have an effective system of traceability in place .
Let us look back for a moment at the embargo on beef .
Although one swallow does not make a summer , in this case the French Government gave precedence to reason and caution over the ideology of the single market .
Knowing the options that exist in matters European , we can gauge what that must have cost it .
The reason why France chose this option is that the Community institutions are not always able , at this point in time , to ensure real traceability of food products .
Our consumer information and protection system is totally inadequate : for example , there is no way a citizen of the Union can know whether ravioli imported from another Member State contains any British beef .
Should the general public trust a Commission that does not ensure the compulsory traceability of beef yet lifts the embargo ?
I did not find it acceptable for the Commission to teach lessons to France , which , for its part , knows that the impact of the voluntary rules it adopted effectively helped restore consumer confidence .
Indeed we also defended that point of view by tabling amendments in the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development .
We note with satisfaction that some of the amendments we tabled in the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Environment were adopted .
The Committee on the Environment amended important points of the Commission proposal .
It is high time we set up a reliable and transparent system .
During this vote , we supported the rapid and rigorous application of traceability , with a view to ensuring unfailing traceability and clear and transparent information , and we are satisfied with the results .
We hope that today ' s vote will not lead to new and shameful calls for an extension or a derogation a few months hence .
- May I support the efforts of Mr Papayannakis to endorse proposals for an EU-wide compulsory identification system for cows and the labelling of beef and beef products .
Following the hullabaloo of food scares in recent times , most notably Mad Cow Disease , it is vital that we take measures to ensure that this type of food hazard does not happen again .
Food safety is a top priority and we must work hard towards alleviating the fears of consumers .
These new proposals enable consumers to trace the source of the meat they buy right back to the animal .
This should allow for any possible health threats to be tackled early and effectively .
From September 2000 , beef labelling must show the point of slaughter of the animal , and from 2003 , the origin of the animal including where it was born , reared and slaughtered must be added .
Public confidence in food safety has fallen tremendously in the past .
We must , of course , put safety first , and also make moves towards rebuilding public confidence .
British farmers particularly recognise that clear labelling is the best way of reassuring worried consumers that the beef they buy is safe .
This House should do its utmost to ensure that public health and safety is high on the agenda .
Pushing for clear labelling is the only way to convince our customers that food safety is top of our list .
Lisbon European Council
Mr President , I have taken the floor , for the last time today , to explain the way I voted on the conclusions of the Lisbon Summit .
I am not very happy : I would have preferred our 15 heads of government to have been more effective , more decisive , more energetic and more courageous .
With regard to social security , I would have preferred it if the decision had , at last , been taken to create a single European pension for the Union .
When the European citizens grow old , all the governments abuse them . They are told off for living too long , whereas the real problem is that their contributions have been wasted .
- ( FR ) The Lisbon Summit was supposed to focus on a social Europe .
In fact , a new wave of neo-liberalism swept through Lisbon and gave the EU its marching orders in the global economic war .
In short , everything should be quoted on the stock exchange .
And this was done with the complicity of all the left-wing governments present in Lisbon .
To sugar the pill , the EU is promising us quasi-general access to the Internet and cutting-edge vocational training .
To crown it all , it is actually dangling the idea of full employment , i.e. the creation of 20 to 30 million new jobs , before our noses .
Employers , for their part , will once again enjoy quite indecent subsidies .
A new economy , but we are being served up the same old recipes again .
The Council is right to say that the shift to a digital , knowledge-based economy , prompted by new goals and services , will be a powerful engine for growth , competitiveness and jobs .
In addition , it will be capable of improving citizens ' quality of life and the environment .
However , it is equally true that without active intervention this shift will widen the gap between the haves and have-nots .
I understand the presidency ' s conclusions as confirming the goal that every section of society should have the opportunity to benefit from new technology .
The Lisbon Summit created enormous expectations .
Some saw this as the ' Employment Summit ' , others as the ' Summit for the Society of Innovation and Knowledge ' .
In the end , it turned out to be the ' Internet Summit ' , as it was in this area that some of the most promising promises were made , if you will forgive the repetition of terms .
If only these promises could be fulfilled .
We share these expectations but we should also like to be able to congratulate the practical results achieved .
On this score , only the future will tell .
Yet we already regret certain weaknesses .
The desire to defend the ' European social model ' is admirable .
Yet this defence cannot be achieved at the expense of economic dynamism and , ultimately , the very future and quality of this social model .
These thoughts are reflected in our votes and the amendments tabled .
That is not ' investing in people ' as the Summit meeting would have it .
The EU does not seem interested in fighting unemployment and promoting and supporting stable and full employment .
On the contrary , it is preparing working people , and this indeed at a fast rate , to live in a situation of complete and permanent insecurity .
Instead of being controlled , restructuring , mergers and company relocations leading to tens of thousands of job losses are being made even easier .
That asset is , and will prove to be , valuable in the struggle for a social , democratic and supportive Europe , a Europe of peace , progress and socialism .
EU-Africa Summit in Cairo
Mr President , I voted against the motion for a resolution on the EU-Africa Summit for several reasons .
The first was because the respective conclusions do not contain any significant reference to the issue of protecting human rights in Africa or to the development of independent legal systems .
The international community and the political leaders of Europe must react against this climate of intolerance and constant disregard for human rights in Angola .
On this first occasion for the discussion of EU-Africa relations in this House , I must therefore once again strongly protest about this attack on the freedom of expression by the Angolan authorities .
We express our solidarity with these African peoples who have paid a heavy price to our ruling classes ; and it is not even enough for us to cancel a debt that has already been largely repaid .
Genuine cooperation with Africa could only begin if we return to the people of that continent what was stolen from them over a century of colonisation and is still being stolen from them today .
In view of these circumstances , we voted against the joint resolution that welcomes the Cairo summit , while voting for the only amendment that contains concrete proposals .
- ( FR ) This Cairo summit is the first meeting at the level of the EU and the African continent as a whole .
Yet the EU persists in wanting to divide Africa between the Mediterranean area and black Africa .
During this neocolonial transition period , the EU is seeking to impose a system of neoliberal relations dominated by liberalisation and structural adjustments .
In fact the only purpose of the famous equal partnership is to remind the Africans that they are indebted to international law and must bow to the panoply of neo-liberal instruments .
The various conflicts in Africa were discussed , but no support is being given because of the rivalries between the great Western powers that are either sharing out or contesting spheres of influence .
Like the EU-Africa civil society Forum in March , which brought together more than 80 NGOs , we declare our opposition to the structural adjustment programmes and our continued support for the debt-cancellation campaigns .
That brings us to the end of the explanations of vote .
( The sitting was suspended at 1.25 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m. )
Madam President , I did ask to speak this morning when my intervention would have been more appropriate . However , as this was not possible , I will speak now .
I regret that the President-in-Office was this morning struck down by an Austrian malady and was absent from this Chamber .
As a result of his indisposition , he was also absent when we voted on two issues of particular interest to the Portuguese presidency , namely the Lisbon summit and the EU-Africa Summit .
In a fair and respectful manner , I must also criticise the behaviour of our President .
I have the highest respect for her but she must also respect us .
Frankly this does not appear to be the case .
Our President exceeded the rules of protocol .
She must realise that being President of the European Parliament does not make her the leader of the majority .
She represents this institution and must act and speak in this House with respect for all the different positions expressed here .
She is not the leader of the majority and I must therefore register my protest .
Mr Ribeiro e Castro , your views will certainly be conveyed to the Council and to the President .
IGC ( continuation )
Madam President , tomorrow I am going to vote for the Dimitrakopoulos / Leinen report .
The Committee for Constitutional Affairs has done a good job and has taken a progressive , courageous position on certain areas of reform of the Treaties .
However , if I were asked to give my opinion on the overall status of the situation in Europe , I would have to say that I am somewhat confused and concerned .
There are two alternatives : either the founding countries of the Community change direction , or else , slowly but surely , we will be forced to abandon all hope .
There is no longer even any question of the creation of a different State ; it is history which must change course .
The Europe which we Europeanists dream of is a Europe of States , and it should therefore be no cause for concern to anyone who , and rightly so , believes strongly in national identity .
I should now like to touch on the vicious attacks on President Prodi , not only from the press but also within the political sphere .
There is no point in denying anything in this case either .
Madam President , as far as the budget is concerned , it is becoming increasingly essential that we bring the Treaty up to date with the procedures .
The integration of the financial perspectives into the Treaty will thereby be a medium-term financial plan which will be agreed between Parliament and the Council .
This integration will create much more stability , as well as the legal certainty which Mr Colom i Naval , the permanent rapporteur for the financial perspectives , spoke of this morning .
Let us remember that the financial perspectives procedure has brought budgetary stability to the European Union .
Nevertheless , Parliament believes that the integration of the financial perspectives into the Treaty will mean that , as well as stability , there will be sufficient flexibility to allow for a review of those perspectives when necessary .
If we do not do this , we will run the risk of confusing the financial perspectives with the annual budgets . This confusion will lead to conflict year after year .
The European Parliament wants the Community budget to be financed by own resources rather than by contributions from the Member States .
The fiscal and budgetary autonomy of the European Union rests on this , as does , to a certain extent , its political autonomy .
However , let us remember that , if what we want is an autonomous financial system for the Union , we must at the same time create a fair tax system .
Progressiveness cannot only be based on expenditure .
Sooner or later we will have to be sufficiently progressive in terms of own resources as a basis for this fair tax system .
I am aware that these days are extremely tiring for all concerned , but duty comes before everything else .
We are on the brink of an historic occasion where the risks are great , but so are the opportunities .
Enlargement is thus our opportunity to change our operating rules and ensure that they are based on greater transparency and stronger guarantees of the rights of citizenship , and also streamline our decision-making .
The basic requirement we uphold is the need to confine unanimity to constitutional issues and to use qualified majority voting for all other matters .
Clearly , a substantial amount of responsibility would fall to our President and to the French Presidency .
Madam President , why is the gulf between the European Parliament and the European governments so wide ?
There is an excellent resolution on the table which refers to the many necessary reforms .
Indeed , majority decision-making as a rule and reinforcement of the Commission and the European Parliament are essential in order for the enlarged Union to function .
Cooperation should be more flexible and each Member State must retain a Commissioner .
Unfortunately , the many sound proposals from Parliament are at odds with the willingness of the governments to extend the IGC agenda and reach compromises .
If the European governments do not change their attitudes soon , a treaty will be drawn up in Nice which guarantees to cripple the Union once it has been enlarged .
Over the past few years , many European government leaders have presented their own people with the view that the European Union is becoming too powerful and too bureaucratic and is taking away too much national sovereignty .
They have contributed to a climate of Euroscepticism where there is no room for compromise .
At the same time , the same politicians have decided in favour of a substantial enlargement , necessitating reforms which were declared taboo in the first place .
As such , many European politicians are hostage to their own rhetoric .
If the European government leaders are serious about new countries joining , they must display the necessary political courage and agree to far-reaching reforms .
We are the representatives of the people .
Madam President , aside from the letter of the report , I want to draw attention to a few of the numbers contained in it .
First number : 700 .
Limiting the number of Members of the European Parliament to 700 would not be a cause for concern were it not that it would render our Parliament less representative .
We must reaffirm that it is our Parliament ' s prime and absolute task to represent the people and the peoples of Europe in all their diversity .
Second number : two thirds .
Two thirds of the vote is the majority required for our Parliament to censure the Commission .
This very high threshold of two thirds is a sad and unique case .
For what European government can boast of being so safe from any real parliamentary control , of having such impunity ?
We must create a formal symmetry .
If a simple majority is good enough for the investment of the Commission , then the same majority should suffice for a vote of no confidence .
The people ' s representatives have the power to undo anything they have done .
That is the rule everywhere , and it must be the rule here too .
Third and last number : 2009 .
The report proposes the year 2009 as the date for electing MEPs from transnational lists .
Otherwise we would be being neither lucid nor ambitious enough .
Nor does this report , which , without being bad , does not match up to the issues at stake , seem very lucid or ambitious .
In changing size , the European Union will change in nature .
So our continent will have to rethink its rules rather than simply tidy them up .
This timid IGC 2000 can in no way represent an end result , but only the first step towards a constitution .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , we should go back to basics and ask ourselves what makes the European Union different .
Over the centuries many attempts were made by some countries to dominate others .
Ideas may have varied according to the times and individual countries ' interests , but the system stayed the same , with power for some and subjugation for others .
We suffered centuries of war and even destruction and ruin on several occasions .
Many times we had to start over and it was the last time this happened that the European idea came into being .
So what is different ?
The answer is everything .
We have a system based on mutual freedom for everyone , instead of supremacy for some .
We have a framework agreed between nations and not one imposed on the nations .
We therefore have a permanent contract between free and sovereign states which are all equal .
Instead of changing majorities , we have the rules of a stable contract in which we are all minorities .
The instruments which we use are procedural rules , unanimity or at least broad convergence , and substantive rules , concrete harmonisation policies and the promotion of economic and social cohesion .
The price is patience , which is a small price to pay for such great results !
We need to be patient with each other and in terms of time so that Europe can continue along the same lines .
We particularly need to resist the age-old temptation of wanting to impose ourselves on others , to break this contract between equals , for this has never led to union .
By cherishing the idea of union in Europe we are being realistic , not imposing a rose-tinted fantasy .
It would be wrong to strip away the rules of the game which have brought us so much success to date .
In my opinion , the motion for a resolution is a dangerous anti-Europe deviation , which completely alters the balance .
This would be a disaster for my own country , Portugal , as for other smaller or medium-sized Member States .
For Europe in general it would mean a crisis or breakdown .
We cannot have a Europe in which less rules over more , which gets annoyed but does not listen and which aims to replace a Treaty between states with a constitution imposed on the states .
We want an open Europe , not one tied in a straitjacket .
Finally , I must mention the idea of transnational European parties .
As a Conservative Christian Democrat , I stand as a witness against this .
My party , the Popular Party or CDS-PP , founded the PPE .
Some years ago we were expelled from the PPE because we advocated a referendum on Maastricht .
It is now our former Austrian companions from the Christian Democratic Union who are in difficulty because of elections in their country .
What a frightening idea of democracy !
We need to be careful , for federalism is so dazzling that it destroys with its hands those concepts which it asserts with its own mouth .
This is because it covets power and ignores partnership and we cannot go down this road .
Madam President , the European Union is starting the necessary process of enlargement , initially involving thirteen new Member States , without defining what the Union is and even without knowing the size of its future territory .
As a Member for Galicia and a European citizen , I must express my disapproval of this legislative initiative from the Commission .
This disapproval does not relate so much to the issues dealt with in this initiative as to its fundamental failings which this House still has time to remedy .
How can this Parliament , which represents all European citizens , rule out its own full legislative initiative ?
How can we , in the same context , not accept that the Commission President must be elected from among MEPs ?
Why is the exercise before the Union of the powers of the national authorities , federal states and Autonomous Communities not recognised ?
How can we deny the establishment of a European employment policy linked to the Structural Funds policy ?
These questions are useful to highlight some of the grave deficiencies in the legislative proposal on reforming the Treaties .
Madam President , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , Commissioner , what are the issues at stake in this Intergovernmental Conference ?
Manifestly , the first and main issue is the quality of the decision-making process in the Union .
Here we attach the utmost importance to extending the scope of qualified majority voting .
If we were certain that tomorrow every decision could be taken by a qualified majority in the European Union , we would not have raised the question of closer cooperation .
But we have to acknowledge that undoubtedly we will also need this instrument .
Of course we can only be delighted at this .
But today I want to address those MEPs who see , behind this closer cooperation , the risk of too far-reaching consultation between the large countries .
Tomorrow we will certainly have to consider the question of the democratic scrutiny of this closer cooperation , an area where our Parliament will have to play a major role .
So I understand why the Intergovernmental Conference will look into these questions and I am glad the discussions are thus going to the heart of the matter .
But you will find these same questions coming up again in other discussions you will be holding during the Intergovernmental Conference .
Let me make one more point before concluding , Madam President .
I want to sound the alarm about the progress in drafting the Charter of Fundamental Rights we want to see incorporated in the Treaty .
It is most important to incorporate that Charter .
Madam President , this is a strange , uncomfortable and schizophrenic report .
Parts of it are clearly crafted as helpful suggestions to the IGC ; other parts form a list of pious hopes and hopeful wishes which are certain to be rejected by the Conference .
How much of this schizoid quality reflects the positions of the two rapporteurs is hard to estimate .
If so , I am sure that I can attribute the better parts to my friend and colleague Mr Dimitrakopoulos and the more unusual parts to Mr Leinen .
However , the majority of my Conservative colleagues have voted to reject the report and will vote accordingly in this House .
The Conservative delegation regards many of the ideas in the report as centralising , syndicalist , unnecessary and backward-looking .
That is the nature of democracy and democratic decisions .
They too are often strange , uncomfortable and schizophrenic , but they remain the best we have all the same .
Madam President , the report by the two rapporteurs is very ambitious , very ahead of the times , but it has two major defects , which ought to be corrected by the vote in plenary .
Firstly , to generalise the system of dual simple majority voting is not the panacea of the future integration of Europe .
A principle of that kind could induce public opinion in the Member States and the national parliaments to reject that system for the most sensitive issues which are in fact exceptions to the general rule .
It would be better to seek a compromise acceptable to all , as in the past .
It is a question of legitimacy and acceptability .
Secondly , Member States with a large population get more than their fair share .
The underlying principle of " one man - one vote " is unacceptable .
It conflicts with Article 190 of the Treaty which provides that the number of elected Members must ensure the appropriate representation of the peoples of the States brought together in the Community .
It is a question of equality and solidarity .
Finally , there is no serious argument to back up the thesis we keep being served up , namely that a Commission of more than 20 members would not work .
Equally , in the case of the Commission , let us avoid making numbers into an absolute principle .
On the contrary , if we want decisions proposed on the Commission ' s initiative to gain wide support in all the Member States , it is vital for them all to be represented .
The important vote we will be holding tomorrow will , I hope , enable the European Parliament to put an end to this ambiguity and to make some adjustments .
Only a more politically realistic proposal will have a chance of being taken into consideration .
IGC 2000 is not the end of the story .
We all agree today that we must adopt institutional and political reforms prior to any enlargement of the Union .
That is the challenge we have to meet at a moment when many of our fellow-citizens are beginning to feel doubts and see few political prospects .
Today the European Union which the founding fathers conceived , achieved and then bequeathed to us must evolve and change .
Europe is at a crossroads .
Either we content ourselves in future with being merely a free trade area , or we seek to construct a political Europe .
But let us make no mistake : if we choose to sit on the fence , we are likely to see the worst scenario .
The time has come for Europe to be a power capable of genuine political expression , of sustaining a social project and framing a common foreign and defence policy .
It is up to us , the elected representatives of the people of Europe , to work towards improving the efficiency and democracy of our institutions .
But Europe will only be democratic if the people themselves determine the principles and rules of its organisation .
I am happy that the Dimitrakopoulos report takes this aspiration into account in the framework of a constitutional process aimed at simplifying and clarifying the Community treaties .
But I think we need to go further ; we need a constitution , i.e. a basic law , so that Europe can assert itself as a genuine democratic society .
Thus the reform of the institutions is not only the condition for enlargement , it is also the condition for the survival of Europe .
Madam President , I would first of all like to thank both rapporteurs .
Long before the IGC was launched , the Dutch social democratic delegation had already taken an active interest in the IGC .
We have held large public debates in the Netherlands and have done a great deal of groundwork .
After all , the IGC should prepare the Union for enlargement , and this enlargement will require the current Member States to make sacrifices .
These sacrifices , however , are small , given the historic opportunity of unifying the East and the West in a secure Europe characterised by peace .
In addition , it should , of course , bring Europe closer to its citizens , because the distance between Brussels and our citizens is still far too great .
The IGC should therefore make up the democratic shortfall .
For this purpose , it is essential to extend majority decision-making to all legislation , except for constitutional matters , and have codecision power for Parliament , as well as the well-known double formula in the Council decision-making process .
Simply reducing a democratic deficit is not sufficient to improve contact with the citizen .
This is why we have specifically committed ourselves to a better and institutionalised social dialogue with non-governmental organisations , since they look after many of the citizens ' interests .
This is provided for in Amendment No 162 .
Another subject which is close to our hearts is that of making closer cooperation more flexible .
It is clear that the de facto veto , currently inherent in this procedure , must go .
Once enlargement has taken place , closer cooperation could do a great service to a Union containing a still greater diversity of Member States within its borders .
In our opinion , the report does not go far enough regarding another point , namely that relating to individual responsibility which must be granted by Commissioners .
We firmly believe that it must be possible for Parliament to issue a strong warning to a Commissioner who loses the confidence of Parliament .
In our opinion , such a procedure does more justice to a democratic balance between the institutions than the Prodi procedure , but unfortunately , the majority of MEPs considered this step a bridge too far .
We think that , ultimately , our compromise has struck a sound balance between small and large Member States .
We hope that this will receive support from this Parliament .
Madam President , enlargement is important for the people of Europe .
We must therefore find a way of cooperating throughout Europe .
The accession negotiations are now under way .
It is therefore important that it should be possible to conclude the Intergovernmental Conference before the end of the year .
Both large and small States must be able to exercise influence in the future EU .
We must strike a balance . This is necessary if our citizens are to have confidence in European cooperation .
If the composition of the European Parliament is to be adjusted , I therefore advocate a proportional , degressive reduction in the number of Members .
All present Member States must be included and make their contribution .
At the same time , the smallest States must be guaranteed a certain number of Members within the framework of the seven hundred seats we have set as a ceiling .
When it comes to votes in the Council , we must find a method of distributing votes which does not need to be renegotiated at each subsequent enlargement .
I therefore recommend a system which takes account of differences in the size of the population .
It is important that each country should have a Member in the Commission .
The Commissioners work for the whole of the Union and are , in fact , important if consensus is to be achieved between the Member States .
The Commission must therefore be able to draw upon knowledge and experience from all the Member States .
EU cooperation is , in the first place , a civil European project and ought to be distinguished from anything of a military nature .
The Member States do have different backgrounds where military alliances and neutrality are concerned .
In Cologne and Helsinki , great progress was made in terms of preparing ourselves for preventative crisis and conflict management .
It is therefore important that the Treaty should reflect the difference between civil and military cooperation .
A European military alliance should not , therefore , be created within the framework of the EU ' s institutions but between individual States .
Military support of a kind which places States under an obligation to each other has no place in the EU ' s Treaties .
Madam President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , enlargement is the most crucial European issue as far as we are concerned .
It is now also at the top of the agenda prior to the Swedish Presidency .
We do not , however , want to see European cooperation cease or degenerate into bickering , which would be a risk if 30 countries could constantly use their vetoes .
Development of the Union can only seriously be accorded priority through also , at the same time , welcoming qualified majority voting in the majority of areas but excluding , for example , the area of new treaties .
Swedish taxpayers , who also pay net amounts into the European Union , are in fact at a loss to understand the madness of travelling backwards and forwards with thousands of cases every month .
Perhaps it would be more efficient to have the offices in a pan-European caravan than to waste all these man-months , as we now do , upon plane journeys .
Finally , I want to thank the rapporteurs for a very good report and to express my hope that the Citizens ' Charter will usher in the new Treaty .
I also want to end by expressing special thanks to Commissioner Barnier for being present throughout the debate and for his commitment to these issues .
I would thank you , Commissioner Barnier , for your efforts which in fact help me to take an optimistic view of Europe ' s future development .
Madam President , we have a very challenging task before us .
We have to find answers to the challenge of enlargement , but the Union at its present size also needs to re-establish the rules of the game and the decision-making process .
We have to strike a balance between efficiency , democracy and Member State equality .
Above all , we have to be able to restore confidence of our citizens in decision making in the European Union .
This will come about by increasing genuine transparency and by developing the way administration actually serves the people .
The Commission must be given support while it puts the changes into effect , but the Council and Parliament must also themselves be able to work to strengthen confidence among our citizens .
Both an enlarged Union , and one that is the present size , must ensure that decision making is mainly in the form of qualified majority decisions .
We have seen that matters of taxation , for example , have become stumbling blocks .
It is hard to understand why we cannot introduce a reasonable tax on capital in Europe .
At present , capital is like a dog off its leash .
We all have a lot to gain and protect in a common Europe .
We also have to cling to the notion of European solidarity for as long as possible in changing circumstances .
I cannot accept the idea that closer cooperation can be achieved on the strength of the vote of one third of the Member States .
In my opinion , we need more than that .
The Commission should also be as thorough as possible in the way it drafts topics for debate , and this is why in future there should also be a Commission Member representing each Member State .
The balance between the small and the large Member States must also be preserved in the Council so that double majority voting can never be acceptable under any circumstances .
Madam President , the constitutional questions we are debating today are highly controversial , as the vote in committee clearly shows .
In fact 12 Members voted for and 12 voted against .
Of the latter , 8 voted against and 4 abstained .
That is not something to be proud of .
But unlike Talleyrand , I cannot console myself with the idea that what is exaggerated is by the same token insignificant .
I want to dissociate myself from demands such as that we should cut my country ' s delegation in the European Parliament by one third .
I know that by head of population the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has more representatives here than the large countries , but that is a primitive and premature method of calculation .
With 6 Members it is materially impossible to follow up all the dossiers that are crucial to our country .
Moreover , we cannot sit on all the committees .
The idea of European lists is premature , if not hare-brained .
There can be no question of a majority of MEPs deciding the location of the seat of this Parliament here , against the views of the others : we must respect the Edinburgh compromise .
In the case of a qualified-majority Council decision , it is inconceivable to provide for a simple majority of Member States .
We must have a majority of two thirds of the Member States , even if that means providing at the same time for a simple majority of Member States representing a majority of the total EU population .
There can be no question of restricting unanimous Council voting to decisions of a constitutional nature .
We must also retain majority voting for fundamental questions , such as own resources , taxation and so forth . I hope the idea of not allocating one Commissioner to each Member State is well and truly dead .
Finally , if we really need closer cooperation , it must involve at least half of the Member States , otherwise we risk ending up with something like the French Directory .
I will not vote for this shopping list unless it is amended along the lines I have just set out .
I believe that our report is more serious .
I do not believe that the proposals which we make in this report are extravagant .
They are consistent with what this Parliament has always demanded : more democracy and efficiency for the European Union .
Madam President , enlargement and its strategic , political and economic consequences for the European Union cannot remain issues undiscussed by the public or viewed exclusively from the national perspective .
This is why the debate caused by the presentation of the European Parliament ' s position on this promising Intergovernmental Conference is vital in understanding this new phase of European construction which is both risky and open to question .
We fortunately have the opportunity to improve these points tomorrow in plenary .
There must also be no doubt about everyone ' s participation in the search for the best solutions for all and about the primacy of the values of justice , democracy and solidarity within these countries .
I warmly congratulate the rapporteurs on their work .
President-in-Office , Commissioner Barnier , I must start my intervention with the same question as Mr Carnero Gonzlez .
I wonder why , as a committed Europhile , I find myself disagreeing in this debate with many other committed Europhiles and specifically the rapporteurs .
In my opinion , the grounding of the European project in the dual legitimacy of a union of peoples and a union of States is not reflected in the end result of this report ' s proposals .
At a time when the European Parliament should be achieving a consensus which could act as an important reference , politically speaking , for the Intergovernmental Conference , our position is cause for regret .
We hope that certain amendments will be approved tomorrow . These are essential to guarantee a balance between small and large Member States and even between the dual legitimacy of a union of peoples and a union of States .
My second point is directed at the President-in-Office .
We were puzzled about what Mr Gama said , in his initial intervention , on the current state of the work in the IGC .
I would also encourage you to ensure that the IGC agenda is extended to questions which we regard as essential , such as the Charter of Fundamental Rights .
Congratulations , Mr President-in-Office .
Comments were made about the Council ' s absence during the address by the Austrian President to this Parliament .
I must say firstly , to clarify matters , that the Council presidency was not supposed to be present nor was this Parliament ' s understanding .
We did not have any indication from the President of this House that we should attend for what was purely a parliamentary matter .
In my opinion , this House has ended up being used as a kind of platform for political provocation and we will not accept this situation .
There is a clear boundary around the work of the Portuguese presidency with regard to the functioning of the institutions and the role of Austria in these institutions .
This was totally obvious from my intervention in this House when this issue was first debated .
Within the European Union we have met all the requirements allowing Austria to act and participate fully in the European institutions and in their own functioning as a country .
However , I must repeat that I have great respect for the work carried out as it provides a certain vision of Europe and of what European ambition must be .
I wonder whether we can close an IGC such as we all want , by the end of this year , with such a high level of ambition in terms of reform .
This point is very important .
This is regardless of the excellent quality of the proposals , as I have said , and the vision of the future which they provide .
There are fifteen parliaments to which we must answer and which must ratify this Conference . If one of these fifteen does not ratify the IGC , then we will be faced with a European crisis .
I hope that the people will realise that the work we are doing in the IGC is serious , realistic and responsible .
From that point of view , as I had hoped , the Portuguese Presidency has proved itself to be in no way an interim or secondary presidency .
It has an extremely important role to play and it really is playing it , in order to make the necessary progress before handing over to the French Presidency .
And from that point of view , I want to thank the Council .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , I just want to make three comments at the conclusion of this debate .
Firstly , many speakers discussed the question of the equilibrium between what are termed the large and the small states .
We are well aware that this equilibrium is both necessary and difficult to achieve .
One way of achieving an equilibrium is for qualified-majority voting always to secure the support of at least a majority of states and half the population .
We even went a little further on an issue which has given rise to much comment and at times to anxiety , namely the Commission .
We have gone beyond the search for an equilibrium and proposed an egalitarian solution in relation to the composition of the Commission .
And to those who are worried , let me say again that I have seen no sign of any proposal that any Member State should not have a Commissioner .
The second option is a Commission with one Commissioner per Member State , but not all sitting at the same time , which would mean the Commission would remain more collegiate by nature .
That , ladies and gentlemen , remains our aim : to establish an equilibrium between the small and the large states .
In that regard , I share the concerns expressed by a number of speakers .
Second concern : the role of the European Parliament as the driving force , as referred to by Jo Leinen .
Opportunities must also be created to convince and speak to the national parliaments .
President Napolitano proposed the idea of an interparliamentary conference .
Lastly , I heard Mr Poos say earlier that this IGC 2000 was not the end of the story .
Of course we know that history will not stop at the end of the year 2000 and that there will be further institutional changes .
One way or another , these questions will be settled at the end of the year and they will be settled for the long term , the very long term .
So we must take the time to reflect carefully about what we are doing .
Thank you , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Famine in Ethiopia
The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the famine in Ethiopia .
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , we can all remember the pictures of the famine in Ethiopia in the 1980s .
We must realise that , notwithstanding the crisis situations which now exist , the international community has taken objective action in response .
This has probably not been adequate and not what we would have liked it to be , but at least the international community has adopted an objective attitude .
Within the international community , either individually or through the European Union as a whole , the European countries have made an important contribution .
We must remember this , now that the crisis in Ethiopia is occurring again due to drought .
The European Union is keen to ensure that this situation does not worsen and is trying to mobilise all possible means to lessen its effects .
Certain instruments are currently working effectively at both EU level and in the role played by the EU within international organisations .
This intervention is very important in tackling the problem of nearly 16 million people currently at risk throughout this area .
Commissioner Patten will explain , at the appropriate moment in this debate , the actions which the Commission has planned or has been developing .
These actions are very important and have been implemented in time .
The decisions were also taken at the right time .
Both the Directorate-General for Development and ECHO have already sent enough food to satisfy the most urgent needs .
We cannot separate from this issue the current political and military position in Ethiopia .
In particular , means of transport may be lacking because they are being used for purposes other than those for which they are intended .
However , these concerns are the centre of attention not only for the Commission but also for the Council .
A meeting was held yesterday in Brussels of a group of experts specifically to analyse the best ways of tackling this situation .
There were representatives from ECHO , the Directorate-General for Development and the Member States of the European Union .
This meeting was preceded by one with the Ethiopian Ambassador to ensure the most effective coordination of the aid and support which the European Union can mobilise , both overall and in terms of that from individual Member States .
To conclude , the situation in the Horn of Africa , in both political and humanitarian terms , is at the centre of our concerns .
On Monday in the General Affairs Council we had a debate on this subject at which the Council ' s Special Envoy was present . He gave a presentation on the situation and its gravity .
We are monitoring this issue .
Unfortunately , sometimes we cannot react as rapidly as we would like to the various situations of humanitarian need and shortage .
I am grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate - grateful but sad that the debate is necessary at all .
I am standing in for my colleague , Commissioner Nielson , who would have liked to have been able to respond himself .
For me there is an awful sense of dja vu - or perhaps I should say dja entendu - about this debate today .
Over a decade ago , from 1986 to 1989 , I was my country ' s development minister .
I know that there are a number of honourable Members in this House who have done the same job for their own countries .
I was speaking in similar debates then , tackling similar crises in the Horn of Africa .
It is a lethal mix .
It is capable of producing hunger and misery on a massive scale .
We face the same old frustrations , as I said in the Chamber yesterday .
Despite all the problems we will , in the end get help to the starving , never quite as fast as we would like , but faster than used to be the case .
So we improve our capacity to deal with the humanitarian problems in spite of the difficulties .
But alas we are still incapable of preventing the humanitarian problems arising in the first place - very often problems with largely political causes .
That is the frustration .
Let me set out for honourable Members what we are doing to alleviate the present crisis .
There are currently two Commission teams in Ethiopia : one from ECHO and one from the Food Security Unit of our Directorate-General for Development .
They will be making recommendations on our future efforts .
The Ethiopian Government has asked for 821 000 tonnes of food aid , 25 % more than in recent years .
This amount is nearly covered by existing pledges by the international community .
The Commission has programmed the delivery of 283 000 tonnes and we are about to take decisions on delivering an additional quantity of up to 260 000 tonnes .
Let me also correct an inaccuracy that is circulating as a result of an Oxfam statement which claimed that the Commission provided only 50 000 tonnes to Ethiopia last year .
The real figure is more than three times that .
The deliveries this year come on top of a quarter of a century in which the Commission has been involved in providing food assistance to Ethiopia .
That is the background .
It is important to be aware of it .
There have been a number of allegations about an inadequate European response to the crisis .
I hope that letter gets wider circulation .
She then argues : " This is not ' visible ' since it is directed through the government , the World Food Programme , the Red Cross , NGOs and others . "
It is important to remember that point .
What matters most is not to rake over these old controversies .
What matters most is what we are doing right now to get help to the starving .
I want to remind Parliament that total Commission food aid , now being off-loaded , shipped or procured , amounts to over 282 million metric tonnes .
An EC food aid shipment of 30 000 tonnes channelled through the World Food Programme arrived in Djibouti port last weekend .
A further shipment of over 16 000 tonnes through EuronAid is due to arrive on Sunday .
This will be followed by further shipments through Djibouti and Berbera in view of the limited port-handling capacity .
Total shipments from all donors expected to be offloaded between now and July amount to 504 000 metric tonnes .
This quantity should be sufficient to meet immediate needs .
Total donor pledges , as I said earlier , are over 800 000 metric tonnes .
So that is what we are doing .
We will continue to devote our full attention to this crisis until it is over , and our people in ECHO on the ground will continue to work tirelessly to get help to where it is needed .
Djibouti is expected to be congested with the arrival of 600 000 metric tonnes over the next three months .
We are looking urgently for alternatives , including better use of the Port of Berbera through rapid improvements to the road from Berbera into Ethiopia .
We are also considering using the Port of Sudan .
Road improvements are under way on the Sudanese side and roads on the Ethiopian side are reported to be quite good .
As my friend said in opening this debate , of course there are problems because of the conflict zone and I just want to repeat what I said at the outset .
I have had to speak in too many debates like this dealing with the consequences of crises like this , in the Great Lakes , in Ethiopia , in the Sudan and now in Ethiopia again .
I repeat , we are better at delivering assistance now than we were a decade ago , but it is intensely frustrating that all the assistance should be required in the first place .
It follows therefore that as we combat the hunger , we should also lend our full support to those who fight for peace .
We give our whole-hearted backing to the efforts of all of those , including the OAU and the European Presidency ' s Special Envoy , Ambassador Serri , who worked for a peaceful settlement to regional conflicts .
They will have our unstinting assistance .
I am afraid that I should add that experience suggests that they need our prayers as well .
Madam President , I wish to begin by welcoming Commissioner Patten ' s statement , which sets out the truth about our European assistance .
Once again , we see the scenes on our TV screens of starving children in Ethiopia and we remember the horrors of the last famine in the Horn of Africa .
Once again , we have pop stars and celebrities criticising the institutions of Europe and national governments for doing too little too late .
It is amazing how quickly some people become experts when a situation like this arises and they can see some publicity , without knowing more of the background to the overall position .
Who does one negotiate with in such a situation ?
Of course we must do everything in our power to alleviate famine .
We must watch the situation in Eritrea and balance humanitarian aid there , if required .
We desperately want these two countries to sign a peace agreement through the efforts of the OAU so that we can resume full development aid to both countries .
I recently spent a week in both Ethiopia and Eritrea .
I visited refugee camps in both countries and saw for myself the hardship and the poverty people are suffering .
It is not true to say that Ethiopia has not been crying for help for food aid over the past two years , but the war situation has blurred the vision of many looking on .
When I was there they were pleading for help .
I saw children with serious malnutrition and in need of health care , as well as food and proper shelter .
I saw families living in caves , the walls running with water , and listened to the hacking coughs of children racked with fever .
It looks bad on TV ; it is a hundred times worse when you stand amongst it , when people are in such dire situations .
I watched two strong men lifting 50-kg bags on to women ' s backs and saw them stagger off to their plastic shelters kilometres away .
I saw children aged eight walking eight kilometres out and eight kilometres back to get water .
They were the lucky ones : they were the ones with food .
We never seem to learn a lesson from the past .
It should not be TV cameras and pop stars who alert us to starvation and drought : there should be a proper monitoring system in the sensitive areas of the African continent .
Perhaps this could be built into Commissioner Patten ' s rapid reaction unit we heard of yesterday .
We must have action and we must have action decisively and urgently .
Madam President , I gladly concur with the previous speakers , Mr Patten and Mr Corrie .
We all witnessed the fight against hunger ten years ago .
We subsequently visited many projects and saw many things , such as very expert local farmers who were involved in reconstruction projects both in Eritrea and Ethiopia .
The least both parties could do is to impose an absolute freeze on military activity .
If we talk about distributing food fast to the right places , then these lorries are needed , and these lorries were the force behind the movement which now leads Ethiopia and the movement which leads Eritrea .
Both have a great deal of logistical experience , expertise and know-how .
According to them , we are entirely to blame .
But there is huge responsibility on the part of Ethiopia and Eritrea , and they should not try to throw it back at us using a cheap marketing trick .
They are jointly responsible .
Put a freeze on the military trade , try to reach a peace agreement and meanwhile , deploy your military lorry capacity and manpower where they are needed .
My second point concerns food . There is enormous pressure to send food fast , and I mean fast .
Experience has taught us that things can go very far wrong depending on how food is distributed , and it could well end up sitting in the warehouses .
I would suggest looking at all the options - this will certainly be done by the monitoring clubs of the EU now in Ethiopia . Is there anything for sale locally in the region ?
We were right to turn our food aid policy round .
Because , ultimately , that is what causes the structural hardship which accompanies these wars .
I hope that the early warning facility , which involved a great many experts , will also be built into our ability to receive signals at an earlier stage .
It is not easy . Everyone knows that , but it could be an enormous bonus in removing the image of inadequacy when we handle such situations .
Ethiopia and Eritrea bear the ultimate responsibility .
I give my full backing to any action undertaken by the Commission on this score .
Mr President , Commissioner Patten wonders why Africa ' s fateful history keeps repeating itself - with good reason .
Millions of people are again threatened with starvation . This is not just caused by extreme drought .
The blame lies mainly with the unusually irresponsible leaders who prioritise the fight for a dry piece of land over the suffering of their own people .
Surely it is absolutely appalling that the governments of poverty-stricken countries such as Ethiopia and Eritrea buy arms on a massive scale instead of building up sufficient food reserves .
The blinkered Ethiopian government , in particular , contributes through its obstinacy to the suffering of its own people .
How else can you explain the fact that Ethiopia rejected the offer to use the ports of Massawa and Assab ? As a result , aid is now unable to reach a large part of its own population .
The Organisation of African Unity and the European Union must exert maximum pressure on the governments of Ethiopia and Eritrea to settle their dispute in Algiers , and aid workers must gain safe access to the population without delay .
An Ethiopian Minister has said that the international community does not spring into action until the skeletons appear on television .
He failed to mention that these macabre images are not only due to a lack of rain but mainly to a lack of proper leadership .
I am pleased that Commissioner Patten has addressed the criticism to the effect that European aid is inadequate .
Despite this , I would like to ask him what lessons he has learnt from how Europe responded this time round .
It is difficult not to despair in the face of the misery in the Horn of Africa .
We should nonetheless not lose hope .
Nature can only destroy where people fail .
After all , war and mismanagement are down to people .
Africa ' s fateful history does not have to repeat itself , provided that people ' s lives take priority over the feuds among its shameless leaders .
Mr President , Commissioner , it is terrible and disappointing for mankind that every now and again we hear these cries of pain from Africa begging for food and water , in the 21st century .
Why do we still allow this to happen ?
Do we not have a conscience ?
Every day the European Union provides less funding , less aid , in global terms , to the poor countries of Africa .
So how can we be surprised at this situation ?
How can it be that we have warehouses full of surplus food which we are obliged to destroy when it rots away pointlessly or when it does not meet the conditions for consumption which we demand ?
There are reasons to justify this , but none of them justifies the death of a single person from starvation .
It is not true that we show solidarity . No .
I hope that these thousands of tonnes of food aid provided do not silence the media and that they continue to report on the tragedy in Africa .
I am not saying anything new .
It has been said a million times and it will be said again , but today I am speaking from the heart and I feel Africa ' s pain as if it were my own .
When will we have a Marshall Plan for Africa ?
Action is already being taken , like the food aid which the European Union is providing , as mentioned just now by Commissioner Patten .
Yet we cannot relax .
We also have to overcome all the difficulties on the ground in getting food and medicine to the starving and dying people and children , and as quickly as possible .
They must deliver the food and medical aid but they must also take steps to re-establish the primary sector which is decisive in this type of economy , in order to guarantee a sustainable and medium-term solution .
This may be achieved by sending technicians and experts who can set up projects in this area .
Mr President , the Ethiopian government has blamed the international community for not being sufficiently alert in its aid efforts to feed its hungry population .
The donors , including the European Union , are said not to have kept their promises .
But also , and I would like to make this quite clear , the aid industry should stop blaming the international community unilaterally and , in this way , stop providing the local regime with an alibi .
Emergency aid is absolutely necessary and must be increased , but development aid to both warring governments must be combined with accepting and implementing the OAU peace agreement .
Mr President , famine and Ethiopia : these are two words sadly etched in our memories .
In the Horn of Africa , which has become the site of every conceivable scourge , 16 million victims of famine , of which 8 million are in Ethiopia , are awaiting aid .
In Ogaden , the most hard-hit region in south-east Ethiopia , there has been no rain for three years , to the point that the notion of dry seasons and wet seasons is now devoid of all meaning .
So of course we have to react , and do so quickly , and unfortunately we know all too well that the price of our procrastination and delays is paid in human lives .
At the same time , let me thank the Council and the Commission for what they have already done and for the information they gave us a short while ago .
Of course the 800 000 tonnes of emergency aid promised by the international community must be delivered as soon as possible .
But at the same time , the countries in the region must do their utmost to facilitate this delivery : by opening up the ports , supply routes and infrastructures .
We must demand that Eritrea and Ethiopia freeze their military activities so that all the assets , all the logistical and human capabilities of these countries are put at the service of their peoples .
The sound of guns has for far too long drowned out the cries of the hungry .
But at this moment , of course , we must simply listen to the appeals of the suffering people .
Mr President , misery and death in Ethiopia were on our screens four years ago .
The cameramen left but misery and death did not leave Ethiopia .
Starvation and death continue today .
The population of Ethiopia pray for rain .
Sadly they see only a rain of bullets .
People crave water , food and medicine .
Sadly all they see is their land and their homes blown to pieces by the tanks and planes our governments supply to the Ethiopian and Eritrean politicians .
These politicians are hungry for power : politicians who argue over territorial boundaries whilst their people die .
These politicians fly their national flags on their parliaments and presidential palaces , but sadly the only flag their people see is the flag of death .
Famine , disease and death remain the hallmarks of these countries .
Hunger for power must not be allowed to override the hunger for life .
Mr Patten has listed a number of measures the EU has taken to help .
Such help has been received with gratitude , but let us put it into perspective .
Sixteen million people are starving today ; 15 000 tonnes have been delivered .
I accept the difficulties of the logistics but that means less than a kilo per person .
No time limit is given , in other words it is a kilo that has to last forever .
These measures are palliative .
They only relieve the symptoms ; they do not cure the disease .
Thank you very much Minister .
I would like to inform you that pursuant to Rule 37 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure , I have received five motions for resolutions .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place on Thursday .
Stabilisation and association process for countries of South-Eastern Europe
In fact , this was one of the central themes of the report and the main thrust of the Stability Pact .
Indeed , regional development is one of the Stability Pact ' s key points . It was good to see all-round commitment most definitely present at all the desks at the Conference .
This concludes my general comments on the Funding Conference .
Further to this Conference , I would like to single out five key points from my report .
First of all , the funding .
Everyone was waiting with bated breath for the moment when the Commissioner would produce the amount .
He finally came up with EUR 530 million .
In the final analysis , therefore , there was little new money in it .
I would , therefore , like to ask the Commissioner how the first year , the year 2001 , is likely to take shape ?
How are the preparations for the Stability Pact budget coming along ?
I am in favour of retaining the figure of 5.5 billion for the time being .
I am only very curious as to how the Commission hopes to raise all this money .
Unfortunately , I have to note that , looking at all the figures after the Conference , the emphasis has been shifted quite considerably towards reconstruction .
Of 4.2 billion , 80 % has been set aside for reconstruction , 17 % for democracy and only 3 % for safety .
I would call on the Commission , and Europe has more or less pledged to use the same scale , to take the 3 to 4 % really seriously and expand it .
I would just remind you of a tragic report in the paper this morning about three children who stepped onto a mine near Sarajevo yesterday and were killed .
A mine-clearance programme is part of safety , is of key importance and should not be overlooked .
What does the Commission intend to do to lift these unilateral trade restrictions in the short term ?
Fourthly , the NGOs .
Regrettably , very little attention has been paid to the role of NGOs , especially the local NGOs , both in terms of preparation and implementation .
This is all the more unfortunate if one considers the level of knowledge regarding the Stability Pact in the region .
I am convinced that it is vital to introduce local NGOs in order to improve the quality of the programmes but also to raise the awareness of the Stability Pact , and the exact plans , in that region .
Finally , the distribution of tasks .
Who will ensure that all these tasks are carried out promptly and efficiently ?
I would like to give the Commissioner a word of advice .
Last week , he was accused of wanting to saw the legs from under Commission President Prodi ' s chair .
If you are having a go at chair legs , could you take those of Mr Solana ' s chair ?
In my view , he has been given a leading role in the Balkans for no good reason .
It would seem far more logical to give this leading role to the European Commission , notably Commissioner Patten , to implement this Stability Pact promptly and efficiently .
.
( PT ) Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I must start by congratulating the rapporteur , Mr Lagendijk , on his excellent and important report .
The debate caused by this could not have come at a better time .
The European Union is by far the body which has contributed the most aid to this region .
Between 1991 and 1999 , the total aid from the EU to South-Eastern Europe , including that from the EU as a whole and the Member States individually , was in excess of EUR 19.3 billion .
The EU is furthermore the main trading partner of all the countries in this region .
It has allowed valuable trade concessions and , as you know , several thousand soldiers , police officers and civilian workers from the EU are active in the region , particularly in Kosovo .
We read with great interest the rapporteur ' s conclusions on the stabilisation and association process for South-Eastern Europe .
The assessment of the solidity and possible deficiencies of this process certainly provides points for discussion and I will try to comment on some of these .
The Lisbon European Council confirmed that our overall objective remains the greatest possible integration of the countries in the region within Europe ' s political and economic system .
The Stabilisation and Association Agreements constitute a central point of this policy .
As the rapporteur quite rightly notes , these new agreements will not enter into force immediately as we firstly have to prepare , negotiate and conclude each one .
As a result , the rapporteur concludes that it will be necessary to create a type of medium-term stabilisation and regional development programme .
I am not necessarily convinced that this is the most appropriate way of tackling the problem .
The general stabilisation process for the area cannot , by any stretch of the imagination , be reduced to just agreements .
The idea underlying the stabilisation and association process is sufficiently broad and flexible to ensure a constant project in this area .
With regard to the agreements , the fact that it is taking some time to prepare these should not , in our opinion , jeopardise the whole stabilisation process .
This has not been the EU ' s experience in equivalent regional processes in the past .
It is also worthwhile to remember that we already have contractual relations in the form of trade and cooperation agreements with Albania and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia .
Negotiations have already begun with the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement .
The Albanian Government recently indicated its reaction to the viability study on the opening of negotiations , which was prepared by the European Commission , and the Council will very shortly analyse this report .
Following internal political changes , the European Commission is also to prepare a viability study for Croatia which the Council hopes to be able to analyse immediately before or after the summer .
Bearing in mind the request made by the local authorities , Bosnia-Herzegovina was sent a guide whose use will help towards preparing a viability study on negotiations for an agreement of the same type .
I should like to refer briefly to the new regulation .
The recommendations to be made will form a valuable contribution to the debates which we will start within the Council on this issue .
These are the main objectives of our reconstruction strategy for the area which does not just involve a merely physical dimension but also an overall stabilisation dimension .
The rapporteur also refers briefly to the Stability Pact on which we have been cooperating with these five countries and with the countries involved in the enlargement process .
It proved that the Stability Pact mechanism has already gained a certain maturity and can and must advance .
The commitment of the countries in the region to implement institutional policy reforms and to create an environment allowing economic progress is a fundamental element in this Pact .
In return , the international community is supporting the reform commitments and the donors and financial institutions have promised or mobilised a total of EUR 2.4 billion .
Of this amount , the European Union alone , that is , the Commission and Member States combined , have promised or mobilised EUR 1.08 billion .
The international community has financed in particular a quick-start package of EUR 1.8 billion announced at the conference and has made available the necessary financing to accelerate the preparation and implementation of projects and initiatives in the short-term package .
However , the conference was only one initial step in a long process .
The European Union is committed to acting as leader and guaranteeing the coherent management of this whole support process .
This will allow economic and social development and progress in line with European standards .
With the exception of Belgrade , all the governments in the region have stated that they will start on the road to reform .
I must clarify , however , that the Council considers that , without Serbia , our common efforts will be incomplete .
A democratic and cooperative Serbia , at peace with its neighbours , will be welcomed within the European family .
We must be aware that overall stability in this region can never be complete when one country in the region represents a factor of instability .
To conclude , we also note that the rapporteur intends that the mandate of the European Reconstruction Agency should not be limited to Kosovo .
In the meeting of 20 March , the Council invited the Commission to work on a proposal and to present this to the Council with a view to including Montenegro in the Agency ' s mandate .
Discussions are also ongoing about the possible extension of the EIB ' s activities .
Finally , the Council has invited the Secretary-General and High Representative , under the authority of the Council presidency and in full cooperation with the Commission , to ensure the coherence of the policies for the Western Balkans .
At the last General Affairs Council , an initial commentary was given on these ideas which specifically stem from the presentation given by Commissioner Patten and Mr Solana .
We are sure that in future meetings of the General Affairs Council this issue will be followed with close attention and by effective steps towards its realisation .
Now is not the time to pass judgement past events and situations .
Here , however , we must pay attention to certain issues .
So what are these issues ?
It is an open secret that interests are being expressed in the Balkans by many sides and many people , who often do not have common strategic aims .
In all circumstances this must be stopped by non-negotiable political answers given in every direction .
So what are they ?
Firstly : absolute compliance with the UN ' s decisions on the area .
Secondly : the boundaries of the states in the area are non-negotiable , even if it proves necessary in critical cases to adopt flexible forms of administrative autonomy and greater decentralisation .
I note that if there are some who think solutions will emerge either by creating new states or by redistribution between states , they are making a tragic mistake .
That would lead to continued and lasting tension with no foreseeable end . A domino effect .
Without exaggeration , at the beginning of the 21st century we would have a new thirty-year war , 10 years of which , in any case , we have unfortunately lived through .
Thirdly : our policy must concern the peoples , and only them . That is what is also in Europe ' s interests .
Fourthly : the issue of economic and institutional reconstruction is an urgent priority .
Positive results will emerge through development , democracy and prosperity .
For the first time you are passing judgement on a complex problem at the very periphery of the European Union .
The EU ' s political credibility and competence must prove successful .
It is a bet which must be won .
Mr President , I would thank the rapporteur for a report that the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party can fully support .
I should like to take up a subject mentioned neither in the Commission ' s announcement nor in the report and so run the risk of its being said that I am operating at too low a level .
Assaults upon women , rape , killing and torture are daily fare and have been so for many years recently in the countries of south-eastern Europe .
I think it is absolutely crucial , if cultural understanding is to be promoted and a proper reconstruction programme prepared , that women should be involved - and involved very centrally - in the processes concerned .
I am taking up this matter because not enough - although , fortunately , a little - has in actual fact been done in this area .
If , however , the initiative is to succeed , these women also need to receive money for the projects concerned . Otherwise , these will not happen .
Moreover , the amount of money involved is small in relation to the other money which , hopefully , will eventually be paid out in this area .
I would therefore ask both the Commissioner and the President-in-Office of the Council to take care to ensure that , where future work is concerned , women are involved in the reconstruction processes .
I do not , in fact , believe that the project will succeed if that does not happen .
Mr President , whatever its positive points , this report is flawed by the demands and requirements set out in the Stability Pact .
In other words , it essentially accepts that the wolf can guard the sheep .
By its very nature , the Stability Pact in Eastern Europe is intrusive , on the pretext that human rights and democracy are being protected .
For the moment , I will just note that the Pact ' s real aim is to ensure the political and economic dependence of the countries in the area , to plunder their wealth and to overexploit their workforce .
In other words , new interventions are being prepared , even military ones , with the aim of converting the area into a protectorate .
The tragic situation brought on by the criminal intervention of NATO and the European Union in Kosovo and particularly in Yugoslavia is indicative of what is likely to happen .
It is clear that those who support this Stability Pact want to frustrate any resistance to their plans , especially when it involves conflict .
They try , either by force or by economic blackmail , to terrorise peoples and subjugate them to the new order .
And the question is this : what principle of international law are they basing their actions on ?
Mr President , I would like to make three observations regarding Mr Lagendijk ' s inspiring and excellent report .
Firstly , the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe focuses on regional cooperation in the Balkans . It is precisely this cooperation which the European Union wishes to promote in the best possible way .
Well , this regional cooperation still leaves too much to be desired .
The basic pursuit of common interests is being undermined by a longing for prestige and rivalry among the various nations . In this way , the swift implementation of the innovative Stability Pact is being hampered .
What is needed here is a powerful response from the European Union .
This should go hand in hand with a selfless and more balanced selection of regional aid projects .
Secondly , I consider Paragraph 26 in the Lagendijk report to be a fine idea .
Indeed , the Stability Pact applies just as much across the borders of the region .
As such , the Republic Moldavia definitely deserves the opportunity of being directly involved in the Pact .
After all , the alternative would be that Moldavia would be in danger of finding itself in a kind of political no man ' s land .
What is more : Moldavia is linked with neighbouring Romania both culturally and politically . If Romania falls under the scope of the Stability Pact , so does Moldavia , therefore .
Thirdly , the success of this Stability Pact may well set a positive precedent for the East , with the Pact extended in the direction of the currently very unstable Caucasus .
Am I right in thinking that Russia already subscribes to the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe ?
Mr President , I will make three points .
The European Union must conclude that it should respect the frontiers in the Balkans , and that is something quite different from its attitude towards Milosevic .
The second point I want to stress is that financing part of the reconstruction plans by reducing agricultural expenditure must finally stop .
I think that the donor conference makes this possible , or seems to at least .
Such issues should be considered by the European Union as well .
Mr President , I am not about to start arguing the toss with Mr Swoboda over where the Balkans begin .
In fact , it was once said that the Balkans begin at the Rennweg in Vienna .
But leaving that aside , the fact remains that this Stability Pact is of course adversely affected by the heterogeneity of its States .
We have first and second wave candidate countries .
We have countries such as Croatia and Macedonia that are about to overtake candidate countries .
We cannot afford to hang about over this issue any longer ; otherwise all we will be doing is tinkering about at the edges , as it were .
We are losing a great deal in the way of credit and respect in this region , and this respect and credibility are fundamentally even more important than the promises of funding that are made and then not kept .
I truly believe we must put this situation in order in the European Union , primarily by strengthening the Commission ' s role in the matter .
What we need here is cooperation between our two institutions , so as to strengthen the EU and its credibility .
Mr President , I , too , consider this to be a satisfactory , significant report .
I would , however , stress certain points .
I refer to the Mediterranean policy and the Middle East peace process , which are also priorities .
We must be consistent , as I will remind the Council when we come to discuss the budgetary issues .
Secondly , it should be borne in mind that the regional approach is appropriate and important , and that it is important for the European Union to play a guiding role throughout this matter .
Finally , I would like to mention two other points : the former Yugoslavia and crime .
Apart from anything else , the embargo is affecting other countries in the region , including several candidate countries .
It is causing serious harm .
And who can lift it if Europe does not ?
It appears that even the United States are expecting us to lift the embargo . We must find the courage to take this step .
Lastly , as other Members have reminded us , we must deal with society as well as infrastructures .
It might be interesting to meet with the chairmen of the three Working Tables to discuss these projects ; maybe the Committee on Foreign Affairs could see to this .
Society is important , and that is why we must continue with information and culture projects .
Then there is the issue of crime .
My country , Italy , has a very high organised crime rate .
Puglia , for example , is a region which has to tackle crime organisations with a base in our country as well as elsewhere .
I would include this among the priorities I mentioned before , because investments will also be affected if this level of organised crime is maintained .
Yet there was a great deal of similarity .
It is enormously important that we rise to the challenge in the Balkans .
To put it in a rather more demotic way , in the phrase used by my honourable friend Ms Pack , what it means is designing , helping countries along the road to Europe .
They want to be integrated with the Euro-Atlantic structures ; they want that as an alternative to the traumatic disintegration of the last few years .
We have to make that a real process for them .
There were a lot of references to the Stability Pact conference the other day , which as several people have said was a considerable success .
The offers made by donors exceeded by a comfortable margin the expectations at the beginning of the conference .
There are a couple of points I want to make about it .
One , in response to Mr Lagendijk , it is true that some of the money going into the quick-start projects supported by the European Union was money from the 1998 and 1999 budgets .
There is a simple reason for that , which is that in some cases we had already carried out feasibility studies and made preparations for these quick-start projects .
In my book , new money is money you have not spent already .
Unfortunately , given the fact that our budget is based on commitments and payments , and not just payments unlike the budgets in almost all the Member States , that is a particularly important factor .
Committing money does not always mean spending it , the next year or the year after or even in the next decade .
It is important to be clear about that .
This follows up the point made by Mr Swoboda and it is a point with which I strongly agree .
We are not just talking about infrastructure in terms of hardware , we must also talk about infrastructure in terms of software .
That includes the rule of law , democratisation , the sort of civil society projects to which the honourable gentleman was referring ; and it includes education - a point I will come back to in a moment .
I want to make one or two other points which arose at Lisbon and which we are following up .
First of all , we were charged in the Commission at Lisbon to bring forward a package of proposals on asymmetric trade concessions for the region .
It is worth remembering that the total exports from the Balkans to the European Union represent about 0.6 % of our total imports .
For agricultural products the figure is about 0.16 % .
So this is an area where we could afford to be a little generous .
We are also trying speed up our assistance and make it more effective .
I announced yesterday agreement in the Commission on a rapid reaction facility .
One point on education : last winter , despite all the cynicism , our energy for democracy programme in Serbia was extraordinarily successful .
Alas , there are not many occasions when people cheer the European Union in the streets - all too few occasions in the country I know best .
But that happened in some of those cities last winter .
The Mayor of Nis has just written a letter saying that Energy for Democracy was a model of the sort of political support we should be providing in his country .
The winter is over , so there is not the same urgent necessity for oil at the moment .
We are looking at ways to extend that sort of scheme .
I hope we are at last going to see more progress on the cleaning up of the Danube , which is crucial for the region .
I have spoken before of my concerns about Montenegro .
Following my visit there about a month ago , we have doubled our Obnova support for Montenegro from EUR 10 to 20m .
We are also providing a good deal there in terms of food security and so on .
I very much hope that the European Investment Bank will lend some money within reasonable limits to Montenegro before too long .
Finally , the honourable Member asked about the scale of our financial commitments to the Balkans .
There will be other occasions when I can follow this up in greater detail .
For me one of the real tests is whether all those yards of Council communiqus and all those promises about Marshall plans and so on for the Balkans actually amount to a row of beans !
This year we will be spending about EUR 540m in the western Balkans .
Because of the front-loading of our commitments in Kosovo , next year we will need to spend about EUR 800m in the Balkans .
About EUR 350m of that will go to Kosovo .
We have to spend money with those stabilisation and association countries which are negotiating seriously with us on the road to Europe .
For me , in public-spending terms , the crucial year is always year one - you are lucky if you get to year two or three .
Year one is actually the big year of expenditure for us .
People say that is a crazy figure .
We reckon that applying the same sort of figures applied in Kosovo , we would need about EUR 2.3bn for a serious reconstruction programme in Serbia .
That could only start once Milosevic has gone .
However , in my view it would be thoroughly irresponsible for us to suggest figures to this Parliament or Council which did not include an element of what we think would be realistic for Serbia .
That is based on economists ' figures and our assessment that we need to meet the same sort of a proportion of expenditure on Serbia that we have met in Kosovo .
The rest - EUR 3.2bn - over seven years does not strike me as being outlandishly generous .
I should be delighted to explain it not just in more detail to Parliament but I am looking forward in due course to explaining it in more detail to the General Affairs Council .
Who knows , if I was lucky enough one day , I might even be able to explain it to finance ministers .
I respond to the honourable Member ' s well-intentioned question in that way .
This is not a figure plucked out of the air : it is an attempt to provide an honest assessment of what our rhetoric actually means .
So let us see the cost of it in the Balkans .
If we are going to have an argument about the relationship between rhetoric and reality , let us start here .
My final point : we are clearly talking in the Balkans about building peace and security , not just in our backyard but in our front yard too .
We are talking about building peace and security in an integral part of our European common home .
I hope we can do so in practice with the rhetoric , with the promises , with the optimism that we show in all those rhetorical communiqus .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11.30 a.m.
Question Time ( Council )
The next item is Question Time ( B5-0216 / 2000 ) .
We will examine questions to the Council .
As they deal with the same subject , Questions Nos 1 , 2 and 3 will be taken together .
Question No 1 by ( H-0255 / 00 ) :
Three mayors of towns in S.E. Turkey , who are supporters of the same party , were also arrested on charges of collaborating with the PKK .
Other Turkish parties besides HADEP have voiced their opposition to the arrests and sentences , arguing that they are a flagrant breach of democracy , freedom of expression and the basic principles of the rule of law .
Question No 2 by ( H-0286 / 00 ) :
Subject : Human rights violations by Turkey In December 1999 Turkey became a candidate country for accession to the European Union .
Article 10 of the conclusions of the Helsinki Council Presidency states that Turkey must fulfil the general accession criteria , and in particular the Copenhagen criteria , if it is to become a Member of the European Union .
Since Turkey is guilty of continuous and repeated human rights violations , what does the Council intend to do prevail upon Turkey to meet the EU accession criteria ?
Question No 3 by ( H-0299 / 00 ) :
Three mayors of towns in south-eastern Turkey who are close to this party have also been arrested on charges of collaborating with the PKK .
Other Turkish parties apart from HADEP have expressed their opposition to these arrests and sentences , arguing that this move is totally incompatible with democracy , freedom of expression and the basic principles of the rule of law .
Mr President , the Council has already raised with the Turkish authorities the issue of the democratic rights of Turks of Kurdish origin , including those mentioned in the question .
It will continue to monitor this situation in Turkey as it develops and to act accordingly .
Turkey was named by the Helsinki European Council as a candidate country for accession to the European Union .
This status places Turkey in absolutely the same position as any other candidate country in terms of both obligations and benefits .
Therefore , Turkey is subject to the same requirements as those imposed on any other candidate country but also naturally has the same rights .
The European Union cannot make a special case of Turkey which must be treated exactly the same as any other candidate country .
Turkey is therefore currently involved in a process in which its situation must be assessed in light of the criteria of the Copenhagen European Council .
These criteria are clear enough with regard to respect for the rule of law , democratic guarantees , fundamental freedoms and the protection of minorities .
These are a prerequisite for the opening of any negotiating process .
Clearly it is in this context that the issues mentioned in the questions will be considered .
Yet , both yesterday and today they underlined the supposed progress made by the Turkish regime in that area .
And we heard the representative of the Council telling us the same thing today .
The truth , however , is that contrary to what some people are claiming even in Greece , the Helsinki decisions on Turkey have emboldened the Turkish regime .
It is no mere chance that on the next day Turkey ' s leaders declared that Turkey has become a candidate for accession without attached conditions .
It is not by chance that , while they have not complied with any of their commitments , they protest that they have not been given the appropriations provided for under customs union .
They also told us that Turkey intends to take steps .
But we have been hearing that in the Council of Europe for very many years , perhaps more than ten , without anything happening .
If anything , things are worse .
The campaigner for democracy and human rights who was shot was sent to prison again instead of his attackers being punished .
Will the Kurdish issue ever be resolved , will all the political parties be allowed freedom of formation and operation and finally , will Turkey ever withdraw its troops from Cyprus ?
In the past Turkey was a country in which we regularly and systematically undertook certain ad hoc initiatives according to the development of its internal situation .
But no more !
The internal situation is now becoming a strategic element in the progress made by Turkey towards approximation with the European Union .
For a long time we have adopted a foreign policy which we allege is based on moral rules .
And not just that .
We have come to believe it ourselves and we claim to represent the world-wide moral conscience .
Already , however , we have reached an impasse , and not just in Turkey .
You see , morality must be applied towards everyone equally , regardless of risks and interests .
But that cannot happen .
You see , Belgrade can be bombed , but not Moscow , Beijing or Ankara .
Let us therefore acknowledge the obvious and return to tried and tested prescriptions .
In other words , let us speak of interests , the balance of powers and policy as the art of the possible .
If we do that we will certainly not be more moral , we will be more sincere and in that case we can all put our time to better use instead of play-acting as we are all doing now .
I am not sure that you have asked a question .
If there is no question , the Council is not obliged to answer , only to listen , as you know , Mr Seixas da Costa .
Mr Theonas wishes to rephrase his question .
I recommend to all of you that you begin with the question before making a declaration .
I have a comment and a specific question : would it not be better for the Council to give more specific answers when it asks for specific questions ?
That was my comment .
Now , the question : if the pre-accession process for Turkey were to last twenty years , would all those who are imprisoned today have to wait those twenty years for the European Union to express interest ?
Secondly , would the Council be prepared , in this whole process , to suspend or cancel obligations of the European Union relating to the pre-accession process as long as the people we are talking about remain in prison ?
And finally , could some action ever be demanded from Turkey which would help resolve the Cyprus issue , granted that this is one of the issues which should be addressed as part of the pre-accession process ?
Firstly , Mr Theonas , I do not agree with the comment that the Council presidency is not explicitly answering the questions raised by Members .
In fact , quite the contrary is true .
The ongoing process of Turkey ' s approximation towards the European Union , which was started with its designation as a candidate in Helsinki , is one of progressive approximation .
It is this point which really must be borne in mind .
Turkey is currently , on its own initiative and therefore as a result of its own political decision , the subject of close scrutiny in terms of compliance with the basic criteria .
This is not to be assessed over the next ten years but rather on a daily basis , usually within the pre-accession strategy process .
If there were a lack of progress on the fundamental issues under observation , the pre-accession process would suffer the respective consequences .
This is very clear to me .
We must draw from this the appropriate conclusions about how the development in the Turkish position on the Cypriot issue may also affect the development of the Turkish position in its approximation towards the European Union .
A comment and question to the Council ' s representative : is the answer he just gave us specific ?
For goodness sake !
Mr Korakas , I must make a confession .
In political life , people are used to reading between the lines .
However , I feel that I made it clear that there is a direct link between Turkey ' s approximation process and its position on the Cypriot issue .
I cannot make this any clearer .
Question No 4 by ( H-0294 / 00 ) :
There is a danger that , owing to the use of force , the remaining places of worship and even the traces of the existence of this minority will be lost for ever .
This particular question involves the problem of non-recognition by the Turkish authorities of the Assyrian-Chaldean community under the terms of the Lausanne Treaty of 1923 .
Under this Treaty , the Turkish Government undertook to ensure full protection for the churches , synagogues , cemeteries and other places of worship of non-Muslim minorities .
These are clearly administrative issues .
They do have a human rights dimension which obviously must be tackled - and we will be vigilant in this respect - but they are essentially administrative .
The Council will be vigilant and the Commission will also raise these issues during the pre-accession negotiations .
Mr President-in-Office , I cannot say your answer is satisfactory .
If the Council were truly concerned about human rights one would have expected a more specific answer .
Several thousand people have become refugees or immigrants to the European Union and only a few tens of thousands remain in the area where they have lived since ancient times .
I would like to ask whether you can be more specific .
Is the Council going to take any specific action along those lines ?
Mr Alyssandrakis says that my answer was not positive enough .
It would be useful to remind him of his question .
I have no idea what more positive answer I could give him than to simply say yes .
It is the Council ' s and the EU ' s intention to raise this issue with the Turkish authorities during the pre-accession process .
Once again , if this is not a clear answer , I have no idea what is .
Question No 5 by ( H-0262 / 00 ) :
Subject : Renewed tension in Kosovo The results of the ' peaceful ' intervention by NATO forces in Kosovo are generally acknowledged to be deplorable .
The current increase in tension is being fuelled by statements by NATO officials and major new military exercises by NATO forces .
Will the Council say what measures it intends to take to safeguard a ' multi-ethnic ' Kosovo as part of the Yugoslav Federation ?
What action will it take to defuse the crisis and tension in the region ?
The Council has been consistently supporting the efforts made by UNMIK and KFOR to prevent further expulsions and to allow the safe return of all those who abandoned their homes .
Several Member States have also reinforced their own contingents in KFOR .
In the past in this House , we have deeply regretted the failure to meet these commitments , which has clearly hindered the action of the international authorities in Kosovo .
There are now new elements involved and some of these commitments are now being met .
This is allowing this issue to be handled differently and more effectively , although we are clearly still a long way from achieving a minimally acceptable solution .
The Council has urged all the political leaders in Kosovo to adopt urgent measures to combat the escalation of violence , to reject expressions of extremism and to support UNMIK and KFOR .
It is very important that the Council manages to further develop the progress already made in the reconciliation between the ethnic groups and that Resolution 1244 can be put into practice .
We are committed to the process of democratisation and coexistence in Kosovo .
Only responsibility-sharing by representatives of the minorities can lead to the construction of a multi-ethnic Kosovo .
We should all ask ourselves whether everyone , particularly within Kosovo itself , is interested in the existence of a multi-ethnic Kosovo .
In this context , the Council repeats its appeal to the Serbian leaders to participate in the joint interim administrative structures .
We believe it is important to start creating legitimate structures with local authority in Kosovo .
The aid for reconstruction and the special financial assistance , including the support for UNMIK , will total EUR 437 million between 1999 and 2000 .
This set of actions and the commitment shown by the EU in this respect have been recognised by the international community .
Unfortunately , at times the practical efficiency of these actions is not sufficient to end an unstable situation beset by tensions which we hope will decrease in the future .
Let me first comment that the President-in-Office of the Council is besieged by questions from Greek Members .
I think that expresses the great insecurity felt by a Member State , but I would also say the inadequacy of Community policy to address serious issues .
I want to thank him for his answer .
Are there any special support and aid programmes planned by the European Union specifically for these people who are living in such misery and desperation ?
I am not ignoring the major difficulties present on the ground in applying these decisions .
There is no point on this issue using euphemisms or diplomatic language .
However , we should not only look at the present . We must consider what happened in the past which was the cause of all this .
Those still living in Kosovo are having problems coexisting with the Albanian majority .
However , the Member must recognise the clear efforts being made by the international community to protect these minorities and to achieve a safe situation allowing them to coexist with the Albanians .
We cannot ignore the fact that this joint effort also needs the Serbian authorities to be involved in the consultative structures .
This would be one way of making its own actions in Kosovo credible .
Our only objective is to guarantee the continuation of multi-ethnic integration .
There is no point beating about the bush on this . This situation is unfair .
However , we must realise that the international community is doing its best .
Furthermore , we should always remember what happened before , in order to justify what is happening now .
Mr Alavanos said that until now all the questions we have heard have been Greek .
I would like to say that the Spanish and the Portuguese , as well as other Mediterranean people , are accustomed to speaking with the Greeks .
I believe that Lisbon , the ancient Olisipo , was founded by Ulysses .
The President-in-Office of the Council therefore comes from a country with a long tradition of Greek presence .
What is being done to get the KLA and the Albanian bully-boys , who clearly have no interest in a multi-ethnic Kosovo , under control ?
There just seems to be an ineffectual permissiveness of the situation despite all these wonderful , pious good intentions .
Firstly , to comment on what the President said , I must say that I am very happy to be grilled by the Greek Members .
I have some great friends in Greece where I have spent several holidays .
As for the situation you describe , Mr Purvis , I do not believe that the policy is disastrous .
It was precisely the situation created in the Former Yugoslavia which caused this reaction .
You refer to the KLA .
Remember that the KLA only exists because the Albanian community in Kosovo was systematically persecuted and totally besieged .
Clearly the need to organise themselves militarily to respond to this threat led to the KLA ' s action .
We are still a long way off from finding such an approach , but I believe that the international community ' s action is very positive in this respect .
We agree , however , that this is the result of a policy which has been pursued up until now , that is to say a result of what has happened .
Firstly , I regret not having the opportunity to put questions to the Members . If I did I would ask them what other solution they propose .
As a specific example of what military forces can do , I would refer you to the case of Bosnia-Herzegovina .
Just think what the situation was like there for several years .
Just think about the international community ' s failure to act faced with this problem and then just look at the situation today .
This is very probably what is needed in Kosovo , who knows for how long , but hopefully for the shortest time possible .
In fact quite the contrary .
You say that the practical result of this action is not what was wanted .
I would point out , however , that the practical result is that today , with a few exceptions and despite everything , this situation is under control in terms of security .
We have made and are making efforts to achieve greater integration of the minority communities .
A more effective result has not been possible .
We will try to continue exerting pressure in this respect and we believe that renewing in some way the institutional organisation of civil society through independent elections may contribute significantly to this stability .
Question No 6 by ( H-0279 / 00 ) :
Furthermore , the proper management of the fourth Pillar entails a number of additional obligations for the EU institutions .
This mandate also includes the development of a phased economic recovery plan .
The Council assumes general political responsibility for the EU ' s participation in UNMIK which is focussed on reconstruction and economic rehabilitation .
However , neither the European Union as such nor the Council has any competence or direct responsibility with regard to the administration of the territory and the protection of the individual interests of undertakings in the region .
I have been waiting about six months for an answer on this .
There is a whole raft of questions and answers and we are becoming schizophrenic over the substance and content of the answers .
What is hiding behind all that ?
My question is this : if the services are not doing their job properly , what are you going to do when they leave you high and dry ?
If Mr Kouchner is not doing his job properly , what are you going to do about it ?
That does not happen anywhere , it is unreasonable .
We should therefore see things as they are , because my impression is that Mr Kouchner is not playing his part properly there .
That is where the problem lies and that is what we should all realise , as European citizens and people interested in developments in the Balkans .
The question raised has never been submitted to the Council of the European Union , particularly by the undertakings which are complaining .
The Council presidency has no knowledge of this issue .
Complaints are submitted to the Member States whose Foreign Ministries are responsible for dealing with this type of question .
It should be borne in mind that the administration in Kosovo does not come under the EU ' s competence but under that of the UN .
There is a specific body responsible for this administration .
Each country is normally obliged to protect the actions of its undertakings within the international sphere .
Each country has structures to protect its citizens and undertakings internationally and for this reason there are specific mechanisms which we all use every day in our international action .
The European Union is not a country .
I do not know under what circumstances the European Union would have to have a global and specific action plan in this respect or why , as a Union , it would have to deal with this issue .
That is unless we reach a point at which national governments prove to be incompetent in protecting their own undertakings .
Mr President , an essential element in the reconstruction of post-war society is always that recovery of the local economy should be as rapid as possible , so that it becomes viable once more .
Many entrepreneurs are naturally very bitter about this consequent stagnation in activity .
Mr President-in-Office , I do not know if you have come up against this problem , but I would nonetheless ask you what you think can be done about it at EU level .
Doctor Bernard Kouchner has at times referred to the difficulty he has in recruiting staff , not only for the country ' s administration but also for the normal structures of economic reconstruction .
It is clear that the cost of recruiting staff is high .
The Union as such does not therefore have a specific and direct response to this type of question .
Mr President , my question is quite specific and is , I believe , of direct concern to the EU .
Is the Council aware that the Serbian government is planning to sell mines and mineral resources in Kosovo to EU companies and to portray this as privatisation ?
Mr Posselt , I have no knowledge of this issue .
However , we will consider the information you have given us .
Question No 7 by ( H-0274 / 00 ) :
Subject : Joint efforts to coordinate IT development The Portuguese Presidency has commendably highlighted the need for development of the IT sector in order to promote competitiveness and employment .
Coordination at European level would be conducive to the further development of the IT sector .
What is the Council ' s view of the need for coordination at European level to develop the IT sector and , in that context , of the need to set up a European IT agency ?
We have already discussed in this House the Special Meeting , which was held in Lisbon on 23 , and 24 March .
In particular the Special Meeting invited the Council and Commission to prepare an action plan on e-Europe , which will be presented , to the European Council in June .
The idea of launching an agency devoted to information technology was presented at the Lisbon European Council in the document provided by the Swedish Government .
This idea was not followed up but it responds to our concerns and will definitely be considered and developed in the future .
It was discussed , however , particularly in terms of possibly being added to the existing Community mechanisms , which include the Information Society Project Office . This has been producing a range of initiatives during the Portuguese presidency .
On the issue of a possible European telecommunications regulation agency , I would remind you that a study carried out for the Commission in October 1999 concluded that there was no immediate need for such a body .
At the same time the Council concluded that regulation should be applied at the closest possible level to that at which the activities to be regulated are carried out .
This too involves the principle of subsidiarity .
I want to thank the Council for its answer .
I was pleased to see that the issue of information technology and its link to growth and employment were so high on the agenda in Lisbon .
What happens in the future is important .
The political task is not , of course , to set up IT companies but to build an infrastructure which stimulates development in this area .
We do , of course , have shortcomings within the EU .
Moreover , there are major differences between the EU ' s Member States and also between different regions within the EU .
Different population groups have varying opportunities and knowledge when it comes to exploiting this technology , and this may lead to great inequality in the future .
Is there not a need for a joint authority to coordinate this work ?
Mr Andersson , you have asked me two separate questions . The first concerns the substantive issue of democratising the Information Society itself , which was at the root of the concerns of the Lisbon European Council .
Your other question concerns the need to have an organisational structure and an institution to supervise this process and to pay specific attention to the similarity between these types of question within the European Union .
You rightly make the point that on many occasions specifying these measures may create and worsen inequalities .
This is a danger and risk to which we are alert .
In the meantime , the governments have decided that the creation of a new structure and bureaucratic mechanism with high costs is not necessary .
They in fact consider that the structures which currently exist for monitoring this process are sufficient for this purpose .
Mr President , Mr President-in-Office of the Council , as an Austrian I am extremely proud of the fact that the Council Presidency has focussed on development in the IT sector .
I would be interested to know how the President-in-Office of the Council views the sale by auction of UMTS licences .
What do you think to the idea of developing incentivisation programmes for the Member States , so as to enable the proceeds to actually be ploughed back into this sector ?
The conclusions of the Lisbon European Council specify national actions which are therefore the responsibility of the national governments .
These are objective commitments which the governments assumed in signing these conclusions and which involve the reorientation of the mechanisms and structures and action plans and programmes which exist within the European Union .
With the exception of the possibility of recourse to the European Investment Bank , there are no new elements in this respect for mobilising financial resources .
This was one of the objective concerns raised during discussions of this issue in Lisbon .
It was decided to try and achieve greater coherence between the current instruments for the simple reason that we believe that , rather than creating new instruments , we should reorganise the current ones .
This process has this national dimension of a commitment on objectives and it is therefore obvious that there are no financial resources for this other than those available in the budget of each country .
As the author is not present , Question No 8 lapses .
Question No 9 by ( H-0275 / 00 ) :
Subject : Women in the new CFSP decision-making bodies Has the Council provided for any measures for women to be adequately represented in the new CSFP decision-making bodies , or made any recommendations to this effect ?
How many women will there be in the crisis management bodies and the security and conflict-prevention political committee ?
Will the Council be taking due account of the specific contribution women can make to working for peace ?
The Member has asked whether the Council will be taking due account of women ' s particular skills in working for peace .
It is quite clear that the contribution of women in working for peace and in other similar respects , particularly in mobilising civil society , is well-known and unquestionable .
We all know the efforts made by the international community in this area and we remember the conclusions of the Beijing Declaration of 1995 on this issue .
It should be realised that pro-active policies do not work in some areas of the decision-making process .
Greater involvement is needed in political actions , in the training process and in the administrative process in general .
We believe it is impossible to implement just one specific action , for example introducing quotas in the common foreign and security policy structures .
In our opinion , this is not appropriate and the Council has made no proposal in this respect .
However , it is the responsibility of each national government to carry out the necessary reforms of its own system of representation in order to guarantee adequate participation by women .
These issues are now being regulated at European level and recommendations are being made as a result of the Treaty of Amsterdam .
Nevertheless , I consider his reply to be basically too retrograde .
The Helsinki and Cologne Summits specifically gave the Portuguese Presidency the job of strengthening this new protection policy .
You have said that you are against quotas but in favour of references .
I would like to ask the Portuguese Presidency : do you not think it would be highly appropriate to include a reference , in the form of a recommendation , in this respect ?
I believe that the role of the European Union should not be to remain behind the United Nations or to be content merely with a reference to what Beijing was about .
The European Union must be progressive .
Women must clearly be involved in political decisions - also decisions with regard to peace - and I ask the Portuguese Presidency to make some reference in this respect .
I have no hesitation in saying this because in my own departments 80 % of the officials are women , even in managerial posts .
To be totally frank and at the risk of being considered behind the times , I do believe that there are limits to what can be achieved by pro-active political action in this area .
This is because it is up to the Member States whether or not they have female generals or brigadiers .
Mrs Izquierdo Rojo , I cannot raise an issue like this just to appear politically correct . I must always be objectively honest .
Question No 10 by ( H-0276 / 00 ) :
On the other hand , at EU level this approach is being poorly applied in relation to science and technology projects affecting developing countries .
The EU ' s framework programmes do not extend to the developing countries .
This means that North African partners , for example , are not able to be involved in science and technology projects relating to the environment .
In fact no-one is preventing them from carrying out the research , but there are no funding opportunities , and thus the developing countries have no access to consortia as partners entitled to apply for funding .
Why is this not the case , given that opportunities have been devised for even Russia , for example , to be involved ?
Has the matter been considered from the point of view of the extent to which , for example , desertification in North Africa or the problems of the Mediterranean affect the EU ?
In 1998 , the European Parliament and the Council adopted the Fifth Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development to run from then until 2002 .
One aspect of this Framework Programme is its four thematic programmes , which define priority areas for research , and its three horizontal programmes .
In December 1998 , the Council also adopted rules on participation by undertakings , research centres and universities and on disseminating research results in order to implement the Fifth Framework Programme .
The only exception to this involves situations in which Community financing is regarded as absolutely vital to achieve the aims of the activity .
Article 6 of the Framework Programme authorises the participation by entities of third countries in specific research and technological development activities under the horizontal programme on the international role of Community research .
In January last year , the Council adopted the specific programmes for the Fifth Framework Programme which set out the objectives and activities for the various categories of third countries .
In addition , a grant system was created under a specific programme which allows graduates and doctoral students from developing countries and Mediterranean non-Community countries to work on European projects .
Funds were also allocated for coordination with Community technical assistance programmes , including the MEDA and EDF programmes , and also for Latin America and Asia .
The application of these three decisions is clearly the Commission ' s responsibility , supported by the committees for the relevant programmes .
So far calls for specific proposals aimed at developing and Mediterranean countries have been made with a total budget of EUR 85.5 million .
Mr President-in-Office , I thank you for this reply .
I would , however , like a brief answer that is clearer and more precise .
Do we then have a situation where the developing countries may now apply for funds ?
They were not able to before .
How is the situation different from , for example , that regarding the INTAS and Interreg programmes in Eastern Europe ?
As the author is not present , Question No 11 lapses .
Question No 12 by ( H-0277 / 00 ) :
Subject : Common defence policy at the IGC There is a ' shortlist ' of proposals for the IGC , according to which the Conference will confine itself largely to ' institutional ' issues .
It is generally supposed that Portugal plans to expand the list at the June meeting .
Is this true , and will Portugal then bring the common defence policy onto the agenda for the IGC ?
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the Helsinki European Council authorised the Portuguese presidency to establish the EU ' s interim security and defence structures as from 1 March of this year .
These structures were established on this date .
It will only be placed on the IGC ' s agenda if and when it is confirmed that amendments need to be made to the Treaty on European Union in order to bring these structures into practical operation .
It is still not clear at this stage of our debate within the European Union whether or not amendments to the Treaty will be necessary .
As soon as this becomes clear , we will announce this .
If these are to be included , this would only be confirmed during the French Presidency .
Mr President , Mr President-in-Office , European defence policy is at present being drafted , and different countries are involved in the task .
Mr Seppnen , your question indicates that you are clearly confused , unless there has been an interpreting error .
We are not talking about defence policy but about crisis management for which powers are now included within the Treaties .
The issue in question is not therefore a European defence policy or the creation of a European army .
The issue is crisis management and humanitarian actions which are commonly referred to in Community parlance as the ' Petersberg tasks ' .
All the EU countries , including yours , can make a valuable contribution to this area .
We are trying at the moment not to create a European defence policy but rather a common culture of security allowing us to participate in crisis management .
In this respect , I can see no major problems .
We hope to ensure that all the various cultures which exist within the Union are compatible .
I would thank the Council . I am nonetheless a little surprised at the answer .
I was under the impression that it was not possible to act if it was a national legal system which had pronounced judgement , because that would amount to interfering in national affairs .
In that way , Article 6 of the Treaty of Amsterdam would really , of course , be revoked , that is to say if action were to be taken on the basis of national legal systems .
It can hardly be intended that a Member State should be able to do whatever it likes as long as it does so via its own legal system .
I would also ask if the Council intends to look more closely into this issue and perhaps examine it in more specific terms .
The crisis management and humanitarian actions specified in the Petersberg tasks to which the Helsinki European Council referred are actions which may be carried out by the European Union .
However , our intention is to guarantee that these actions are totally compatible with what currently exists in the relations between certain EU Member States and the NATO countries .
The reason for this is that the mechanisms and means which exist for managing these crises are not extensive .
In fact , most of the time , these means belong to NATO .
We therefore need broad cooperation which aims to guarantee the sharing of responsibility among all those countries which currently have a similar security and defence culture and objective .
Question No 13 by ( H-0283 / 00 ) :
Article 6 of the Treaty of Amsterdam states that the European Union is founded on the principles of liberty , democracy , respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms .
Furthermore , Greece is a contracting party to the European Convention on Human Rights , which guarantees the right to freedom of expression and religious freedom .
Mr Papayannakis is asking the Council how it interprets this judgement of the Court of First Instance of Thessaloniki banning from circulation a book by the author Mimis Androlakis which it describes as irreverent .
He is also asking whether the Council intends to intercede with the Greek authorities .
The underlying aim of this article is to establish a kind of political supervision over the actions of Member States and to ensure that democratic principles and values are respected .
It is intended to guarantee the sharing of common values .
However , Article 6 cannot be invoked for the purpose of any type of interference in the administration of the internal affairs of Member States , particularly at judicial level .
The Union has no competence to intercede in the exercise of legal power by the Member States .
Therefore , the Council cannot interfere in the decision-making of the authorities .
Having exhausted this recourse to the Greek courts , there would always be recourse to the Court of Human Rights .
My follow-up question is about how the decision at the Helsinki Summit about military , peacekeeping and peace enforcement operations is to be interpreted .
The decision provides an opportunity for the Applicant States too to participate in the military structures to be established by the EU .
Does this also apply to Turkey which has , of course , applied for membership ?
Does this mean that a door has been opened for military cooperation between Turkey ' s and the European Union ' s forces in , for example , peace enforcement operations ?
Mr Sjstedt , the Member States undertake to act within the framework determined by the Treaty .
This is why they signed the Treaty .
If a serious and persistent violation of citizens ' rights were to be identified , according to the terms of these articles , then there would clearly be ways of interceding with the Member States .
The Union itself has ways of doing this but only in specific cases .
Thank you very much , Mr Seixas da Costa .
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Council has elapsed , Questions Nos 14 to 31 will be replied to in writing .
That concludes Questions to the Council .
( The sitting was suspended at 7.00 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m. )
Address by Mr Klestil , President of the Republic of Austria
Mr President , you expressed the wish to speak today at our Parliament ' s formal sitting .
( Loud applause ) It is in that spirit that I now welcome you on behalf of the European Parliament .
We have no doubt , Mr President , that it will take account of the very serious concerns our Parliament expressed by an overwhelming majority , on 3 February last .
Without further ado , I therefore give you the floor .
( As President Klestil prepared to take the floor , many left-wing Members left the Chamber .
Interjection from Mrs Muscardini : " So that is democracy , not to give a hearing to speakers ... " )
Financial services and complementary pensions
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports :
Before we begin I would like to advise you that , since this is a night sitting and we have a lot of work to get through , I am going to be very strict in applying time limits .
I therefore also ask Members to show an appropriate degree of self-discipline so that we can finish at a reasonable time .
The debate which we held recently on the bodies for collective investment in transferable securities and the reactions to the report on pension funds , which we will hear shortly , demonstrate the complexity and importance of these issues .
These two issues , the liberalisation of the financial services market and taxation , are dealt with in the action plan which is the subject of my report .
What is included in these measures ?
What is intended through these measures ?
In the explanatory statement , I offer a detailed comparison of the two types of market .
In order to achieve these two objectives , the Commission proposes a truly arguable and risky formula : the speeding up of the legal process , which , in turn , would involve three actions .
Firstly , a reduction in the standards which need to be included in a regulation or directive , that is to say , which require the participation of this Parliament .
Secondly , limiting those standards to the definition of the general approaches and basic principles which must be established in this field , allowing the Commission the possibility of implementing them .
Thirdly , granting the Commission broad powers of interpretation .
I do not doubt that we have to speed up the process , Commissioner , but this Parliament is not prepared to relinquish the powers which it has taken so long to acquire .
Therefore , one of the first tasks which we will have to undertake together is to find a model which will satisfy both objectives .
We could not agree more .
The consequence is that , in order for the market to function , these barriers must be removed .
Again we agree , but we know that there are difficulties in this approach resulting from the need to reconcile the objective of liberalisation with the objective of protecting investors .
Firstly , the barriers are not identified .
Commissioner , it is not sufficient to be able to deduce what they are from the measures proposed by the Commission .
Personally , I would have liked to have seen a list of those national measures which , in accordance with the Directive on financial services , are hindering the operation of the market in each country .
Secondly , the solution proposed by the Commission still raises difficulties .
Liberalisation must therefore be implemented in parallel with the increase in measures relating to control and taxation .
These are the concerns which are raised in my report .
These concerns reflect a constructive attitude towards cooperation with the Commission , which I have always considered to be a loyal ally of this Parliament , in the development of an issue which is so very complex .
With regard to the legal framework , I believe that there is a paradox in this sector .
The more liberalised an economy is , the more necessary it becomes to rigidly regulate the financial markets .
The American economy , which is probably one of the most liberalised economies in existence , is the economy which lays down the most detailed regulations for the financial markets .
Comitology in these cases usually means taking away with one hand what is given with the other .
In this respect , I am in total agreement with the conclusions of the rapporteur .
I believe that we need some very specific legislation and I am sure that the Commission can count on the support of Parliament in the drawing up of this legislation .
The only way to do this is to replace the current rigid regulations with a set of specific Community regulations which will produce certainty in this very delicate sector of the economy .
Many businesses , ranging from small businesses in border areas to large multinationals , would like to treat their accounts as one national account .
For example , they would like to use funds in their euro account in country A to settle an account in debit in country B. In this way , they would pay less interest .
Existing legislation , however , prohibits or hinders this type of cash management technique .
The world of banking has already driven this problem home to you on numerous occasions .
I would appreciate a reply to this .
I therefore feel that funds which cover biometric risks should receive privileged treatment , and that any inflexibility of the system could , in effect , result in negative imbalances for the beneficiaries .
This demonstrates the pressing need to allow the development of supplementary self-funded high return pension schemes in the European Union to usefully supplement state contributory pension schemes .
Furthermore , in order to encourage the free movement of workers , we felt it essential to quickly improve the transferability and the acquisition of pension rights from supplementary schemes from different European countries .
This is the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs .
This directive must in particular establish a framework to remove obstacles to the free choice of a pension fund , to the free movement of people , to the free provision of services and to charging double taxes .
We recommend a solution based on the principle that contributions should be tax-deductible , and that supplementary invested income should be taxed in accordance with the income tax law in force in the country of residence .
With regard to prudential regulation , this should not be disproportionate , so that the security of the fund is guaranteed .
That covers the general framework .
I am grateful to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for having included all the relevant conclusions of the Committee on Women ' s Rights and Equal Opportunities in the motion for a resolution .
I now come to the report by Mr Garca-Margallo y Marfil .
As matters currently stand , we should remember that a single market for capital and financial services can function perfectly well without tax harmonisation .
Mr President , representatives of the Commission and the Council , Mr Kuckelkorn , ladies and gentlemen , firstly I would like to thank the Commission for the sterling work they have done .
The communication from the Commission is liberal-minded and forward-looking .
Why should Parliament now adopt a less liberal position and vote in favour of stagnating structures ?
We should not define the form and scope of the directive too narrowly .
What we need to do instead is to view the issue openly and from a wider perspective .
It is essential that we do not define the nature and scope of the risk coverage in a restrictive way .
Instead , we should be open-minded and look at the issue from a wider perspective and encourage a framework which is based on liberal markets and vigorous competition between different types of pension schemes .
What we should promote is the freedom of choice of the employee and the employer to choose the kind of scheme that best suits their interests
The question of biometric risks has proved to be of a controversial nature .
My firm opinion is that all the different pension schemes should be covered by the same directive in order not to protect certain types of schemes from competition .
Both form a pension scheme but focus on different competitive benefits .
Mr Kuckelkorn , no-one in this Parliament is of the opinion that supplementary pensions should not cover the longevity risk , through the purchase of an annuity or by some other tool .
It is not the task of the European Union to define the nature and scope of the risk coverage concerning other biometric risks .
But it should be determined individually by each employee , as the Commission proposes .
Leaving this kind of decision to the individual is consistent with the principle of subsidiarity .
Allowing supplementary pension scheme managers the freedom to invest in a diverse range of instruments increases the security of the overall investment portfolio .
Increased freedom promotes the functioning of the capital market and has a significant impact on the growth of venture capital in Europe .
I am committed to the idea that we , as the European Parliament , should encourage healthy competition and the freedom of choice of the individual .
This must not only mean a single market for supplementary pensions , but the whole package of legislation concerning the financial services .
Mr President , the Socialists support the Commission ' s efforts to establish a transparent and fluid internal financial services market .
It is in the interest of economic operators and all consumers that the costs of capital and financial intermediation should be as low as possible .
European financial markets are currently suffering from compartmentalisation along national lines , even though , following the globalisation of the international financial system , we are seeing the widespread phenomenon of mergers and internationalisation .
The action plan aims to make the European market equal to the American market .
The real introduction of the euro in 2002 , however , will result in transparency and competition , which will force the national markets to adapt more quickly than they had anticipated .
The problem is that the legislative bodies , both national and European , are taking a long time to adapt the law to reality .
Personally , I would not be opposed to an accelerated legislative procedure , on condition that it does not end up as a mere exercise for non-accountable technocrats .
There is not only a problem of coherence in the various legislations on the different sectors of the financial world , but in particular there is the problem of supervising and protecting the public interest .
John Kenneth Galbraith condemned the mistaken idea that there is any link between money and intelligence .
The lure of profit is such that the financial world tends to create a form of collective euphoria , which often leads to financial crisis .
Finland and the United Kingdom have drawn conclusions from this and have established a single prudential authority for the whole sector .
Should the Council not use the Intergovernmental Conference to establish the necessary legal basis for the Council to be able to entrust the ECB with certain specific tasks relating to the prudential supervision of insurance companies too ?
I must congratulate the rapporteur , Mr Kuckelkorn , for the tenacity with which he argues in favour of supplementary pensions and for these to become in effect a second pillar of insurance for old age .
I shall conclude , Mr President , by pointing out that it amounts to saying that whilst we should not discard insurance products we must favour products which cover biometric risks .
Mr President , Commissioner , if Europe is to grow , attract capital and create jobs , the single market for financial services must be turned into a reality .
Up until now , it has mostly been a matter of words and all too few concrete measures .
At present , the financial services market and , through this , Europe ' s power to grow have been impeded by countless national regulations and administrative complications .
These are detrimental not only to companies but also , of course , to Europe ' s citizens .
The development of the Internet is , and will be , of great importance to the provision of financial services across national borders .
Above all , it is consumers who will benefit from this development because they will have greater choice and access to lower prices .
We Liberals do not regard tax harmonisation as a prerequisite for bringing the single market for financial services to fruition , even if a degree of harmonisation may prove to be necessary to avoid harmful competition over taxes .
The euro has stabilised economic development and provided better opportunities to reduce the costs of acquiring capital , something which benefits both companies and private households .
Mr Romano Prodi ' s statement today in a Swedish newspaper to the effect that Sweden could stay outside EMU is therefore both surprising from an economic point of view and doubtful in terms of the Treaties .
The Commission ' s Green Paper on liberalising complementary forms of pension protection is something we welcome .
It is nonetheless important to emphasise that pension cover in Europe is characterised by national diversity and that there is no need to harmonise the various systems in order to create a single market .
It is important that a large number of systems should exist side by side .
This increases choice and diversity .
However , it is desirable , in order to avoid double taxation , to introduce a minimum degree of harmonisation in regard to the Member States ' treatment of supplementary pensions for tax purposes .
I also consider that the Member States themselves should be able to determine what the system should look like , for example whether or not the care of relatives should be covered by pensions .
This is an issue which can be resolved better at national level .
In committee there was lively discussion on biometric risks .
Views were put forward to the effect that only those systems which cover risks of this kind are to be included under the directive .
We do not believe that this should be the case , especially in view of the need for small and medium-sized companies to be able to do business .
Freedom of choice is emphatically a good thing .
Finally , I want to congratulate Mr Garca-Margallo y Marfil and Mr Kuckelkorn for two important reports designed to create a competitive Europe .
Mr President , where supplementary pensions are concerned , the crucial issue is whether one wants to provide pensioners with security in their old age or to reinforce Europe ' s capital markets .
These are not only two quite different goals , but it is also difficult to combine them in one and the same system .
The Commission ' s proposal and both the reports we are debating today give priority to the needs of the capital market .
The hope is that the market-based pensions will then also prove to be good for pensioners in thirty or forty years ' time .
How matters will turn out , however , we do not know .
There is a large deficit when it comes to security and solidarity in the pensions area because the risk is so great and because there can never be enough security and solidarity .
Supplementary assurances are therefore a problem . They are , of course , much less secure than a system of basic pensions which has been financed on the basis of solidarity .
I also believe it would have been commendable if these supplementary pension systems could have been run as pension funds on the basis of solidarity under the aegis of trade unions , as happens in certain Member States .
Even if these too are market-based , they offer much more in terms of stability and security than the privatised pension assurances .
To young people I would say : pin your hopes on education and on developing your skills .
And to older people I would say : acquire a nice , inexpensive place to live in the autumn of your years .
We politicians ought to be putting our faith in a good , sound system of basic pensions .
It is now up to us to see that an acceptable document is produced tomorrow during the vote .
Unfortunately , the Commission has not really made any headway towards fulfilling this wish .
We have a long way to go before the compulsory transfer of value between Member States will be a reality .
The first obstacle we need to negotiate is the mutual recognition of supervisory rules .
It is then important that an adequate distinction is drawn between pension funds and commercial insurance companies .
A pension fund has an obligation to be generally acceptable .
A full-value pension scheme covers biometric risks .
Insurance companies do offer their participants a choice , and their products do not cover biometric risks .
Since the risks covered are not identical , government inspection will also vary for pension funds and insurance companies .
On account of this supervision , complete freedom of investment is justified in both cases .
This leads on average to higher returns .
The second obstacle is the levying of taxes within the Member States .
Taking into account the fast approaching ageing of the population , it is desirable for fiscal systems to promote the development of supplementary pensions .
The EET model , where premium payments are tax-free and the retirement payout is taxed , meets this requirement and is also common in most Member States .
I hope that Parliament and the Commission will make the internal market for supplementary pension schemes a reality along these lines .
Mr President , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , I would like to express my opinion on the single market for supplementary pensions .
Firstly , I would like to express my agreement with the model based on the intergenerational solidarity of the basic state systems , to which are added the supplementary capitalisation systems .
On the other hand , I would also like to express my agreement with what Mr Kuckelkorn says in relation to the correlation established between pension systems which cover biometric risks .
We are not talking about systems for financial investment but about pension plans .
On the other hand , we are also in agreement with the participation of workers and the urgent harmonisation of the tax provisions .
Nevertheless , we have to clarify the basic concept of pensions in a way which includes the supplementary pension schemes which cover biometric risks .
We must take account of the great difficulties which exist within the Union with regard to the development of supplementary systems .
Finally , I would like to underline our support for the creation of a European pension fund with the participation of the different economic sectors and the pension providers .
The dynamic of growth and job creation has run its course . The capitalisation mechanisms mean adapting retirement pensions to the single market and the introduction of the euro .
Moving in this direction entails the risk of a system based on private insurance , which would gradually replace social security .
Welfare and retirement pensions would no longer be rights but would be commodities subject to the laws of the market .
The set pension fund strategy essentially aims to drain savings away toward the financial markets .
A system of this type is very dangerous and deeply unfair as it benefits the richest people , those who can save money , and leaves the poorest with a pittance of a retirement pension .
Mr Kuckelkorn ' s initial report considered the retirement pension primarily as social insurance against certain life risks , rather than a process of accumulating capital .
It has been radically changed , however , by the adoption of amendments unreservedly supporting the mechanisms of capitalisation .
I cannot , therefore , approve this report which makes the Commission ' s approach even worse .
On the contrary , we think that a high level of social protection must be maintained , based on solidarity , regardless of financial profitability .
The objective should be to obtain new resources and to upgrading the purchasing power of retirement pensions from contributions which could be raised from taxes on financial products at the same level as those which apply to wages .
Employers ' contributions should be linked to companies ' employment policies and taxes set up on those which make people redundant .
The problem needs to be addressed urgently in my opinion , with demographic pressures in recent years already generating deficits in the pay-as-you-go schemes in France , Germany , Italy and Spain .
It is even predicted that if the current trend continues some countries will be facing costs of up to 20 % of their GDP in the next ten years for their pension liabilities .
There are , of course , many risks with equity investments , but there are even greater risks to Europe with stagnant economies .
In the case of defined contribution schemes , which give the investor a direct stake in the overall health of the national economy , there will also be a sense of participation in the country of that individual .
The state scheme will of course remain the primary mechanism for basic provision in old age .
But personal responsibility and choice will become the watchwords of success if the demographic challenges of the coming century are to be met successfully .
That is why we should not be too prescriptive regarding the issues of biometric risks or investment strategies .
Mr President , this report seeks to harmonise supplementary pensions in Europe .
In fact , it seeks nothing less than to open up all European pension schemes to the financial markets .
Indeed , it recommends the development of a truly single pension fund market by referring to the inevitability of resorting to capitalisation .
It should be noted , by the way , that when the financial interests of the most powerful are involved , they are not slow to forget the principle of solidarity and to propose a single model .
This report puts forward cynical arguments and seeks to give credence to the idea that only capitalisation would ensure better protection of low incomes .
The truth is that it is not an attempt to supplement state pension schemes , but rather to gradually empty them of all substance .
Those who are employed know full well , however , that a pension is theirs by right .
They fought for this right , which is based on intergenerational solidarity .
That is why they do not , under any circumstances , want to see their pensions gambled on the stock exchange .
In several countries , powerful social movements have already opposed similar attempts .
Their threats have to this day prevented the French government , for example , from introducing pension funds .
Retired people need an adequate , stable and safe pension .
Pension funds and the stock exchange will never be able to guarantee that .
On this issue , as on many others , a choice must be made between increasing the profits of a few or satisfying the needs of all .
Mr President , I would like to start by paying tribute to Mr Kuckelkorn , because he has drafted a courageous report in my opinion , given Germany ' s rigid and inflexible pension situation .
I think he deserves tribute for this .
I myself come from a country where a very extensive second pillar of supplementary pensions exists .
Almost 90 % of the professional population in the private sector are in pension schemes which guarantee a wage-related pension .
This also includes small and medium-sized businesses .
With a capacity of over EUR 150 billion , the pension fund of Dutch civil servants is the largest institutional investor of its kind within the international capital market .
Pension funds in the Netherlands are daring to take increasing risks in their investments .
In 1999 , nearly half of the pension money was invested in shares , albeit under strict prudential conditions .
But the average return over the past five years has been around 15 % , instead of the usual 4 % .
It has been shown that it is precisely the compulsory nature of participation in collective pension funds which encourages these excellent results .
The fact that funds are spread over generations and risks means that the funds can invest in shares to such a high level .
On balance , this yields a far better return for individual members , much better than they could ever achieve on their own via a savings plan or investment fund .
Consequently , I would strongly discourage you from formulating a principle of free choice at European level .
If I were you , I would leave this to the Member States and the free market .
As for biometric risks , other speakers have already talked enough about this .
I fully endorse Mr Kuckelkorn in this respect and would argue that such a definition is very important because we are expecting a number of additional directives from the European Commission .
Mr President , we are voting against this report advocating self-funded pension schemes .
At the same time , it makes the value of pensions subordinate to the financial markets , in other words , to speculation .
What is more , all those whose salaries are too low for them to be able to pay into a pension fund will be entitled only to a very meagre pension .
Referring to demographic changes in order to justify this is a swindle .
If contributory pension schemes are having problems , it is only because there are fewer employed people in proportion to the number of retired people , because there are too many unemployed and because salaries are too low .
So , if there is a shortfall in pension funds , States should take over by deducting the necessary amounts from the profits of industrial and financial groups .
Mr President , the ageing of the European population means that we will have huge problems when it comes to footing the bill for our statutory pension schemes .
Member States where supplementary schemes are under-developed compared to statutory pension schemes will feel the pinch most .
Unfortunately , we are forced to note that this is the case for the majority of Member States .
Needless to say , the objective of making employees more mobile and flexible within a large single European market and the euro zone will inevitably lead to interest in supplementary pension schemes .
One of the philosophies underlying the European Union and the Monetary Union requires that the internal market should be used to the full .
As such , you , as a worker , should be able to take your accumulated pension rights with you to another European country .
To this end , we need to develop a legal framework at European level at the earliest opportunity .
Why should a German employee , for example , have to wait ten years before he has built up a pension and a Dutch person only one year ?
As such , this German person suffers a considerable handicap with regard to mobility .
What is more , the fiscal treatment of pensions at the time when contributions are made and at the time of payout should be brought into line .
Commissioner , you deal with taxes , what is the latest on this score ?
I have to say that this parliamentary discussion seems to be more about a complete harmonisation than coordination .
This , unfortunately , is at the expense of Member States which already have their house in order .
One such country is the Netherlands , initially presented as a role model for all other Member States and gradually relegated to curiosity status .
But the Dutch system is a worthy system which accepts old age , surviving dependants and vulnerable groups within the labour market as they are .
The supplementary pension scheme is based on collective feeling and solidarity .
This enables SMBs - and specifically SMBs with reference to the UK MEPs - to cover biometric risks at relatively low cost .
Top of the list are payability and security , which is not the case for the proposals submitted by some MEPs .
Mr Bolkestein , how do you intend to bring the discussion back to the crux of the matter , namely mobile pensions for mobile people ?
Mr President , firstly can I say that the EMAC report is pretty good and I hope we do not amend it too much .
The key word is " supplementary " pensions .
We are not trying to relieve poverty or provide a basic income in retirement .
The second point is that it is important that we provide decent pensions to enable citizens to move around Europe .
So I welcome the emphasis on removing the restrictions on the investment of pension fund portfolios and support the objective of removing barriers to labour mobility .
The key is to keep it simple or it will not work , it will not remove the obstacles .
As Mr Tannock has said , there are demographic pressures upon us and it is in our interest to facilitate the development of supplementary pension schemes both around Europe and also in many countries within Europe .
On the issue of biometric risks , which we have heard a lot about , clearly a pension by definition has one biometric risk , which is longevity .
Once you start building on top of that , you are on dangerous ground if you make it a condition of a passport .
What we need is to have a very simple proposition , and then let the market sort the rest of it out because that is what the market is for .
The biometric risks problem means many different things to different people .
So the key is to keep it simple and make it work .
Mrs Laguiller , the people trusted the states and the governments , especially the pledges made by left-wing governments , but they have been left with peanuts .
And what is the truth ?
The governments have squandered the funds and made off with the workers ' salaries .
Shame on the Socialist governments for failing to provide for workers in their old age !
It is time to change the tune . We must give to Caesar what is Caesar ' s and to God what is God ' s .
Mr President , we are facing a difficult issue , as evidenced by the large number of speakers .
I would like to extend warm thanks to Mr Kuckelkorn as rapporteur , for the huge effort he has made to achieve this report .
I am slightly less pleased with Mr Kuckelkorn ' s tabling of amendments , because he has tabled a great many and they go beyond the requirements of the current objective .
I think that we should differentiate between the two Kuckelkorns .
I believe that the systems we should pursue in Europe should be based on two principles .
It is true that a country such as the Netherlands has managed to strike a fine balance between the two . Other countries have managed to do this to a lesser extent .
In England , if there is a hard frost , for example , people are unable to pay their bills .
I do not think that this is the right way forward .
We should keep intervention to a minimum .
The Commission has always attempted to do this and I do believe that it has succeeded in its aim .
I think that two issues still need tackling .
Firstly , risks tied in with the second and third pillars should be sufficiently covered , because far too little has been said about this .
Secondly , the first pillar should at long last be defined , as the first pillar in one country is quite different from that in another country .
And if we could bring all of this a bit closer together , we would perhaps have far fewer problems than we have at the moment .
Mr President , may I start by extending warm thanks to both rapporteurs , Mr Garca-Margallo y Marfil and Mr Kuckelkorn , for the reports they have drafted and the efforts they have made .
In fact , could I also warmly thank all other speakers this evening - nearly thirty of them - for the comments they have made and questions they have asked .
This is an important matter , both the action plan for financial services and the pension issue , and it is heartening to see so many speakers take part in the exchange of opinions .
Perhaps you will allow me to make a few observations in this respect . I hope , at the same time , to comment on the amendments which have been tabled .
The Commission welcomes the attention which the report pays to the need for capital markets to function to optimum effect .
In this context , I would also refer to Parliament ' s request for streamlined rules for stock market access , market manipulation and revision of the investment services directive .
The opening up of financial markets should , naturally , go hand in hand with an adequate level of consumer protection , and this was also requested this evening in this debate .
They are thus parallel processes , with liberalisation on one side and consumer protection on the other , and these are the two objectives which you will find wherever financial markets are at issue .
These are the European Commission ' s twin objectives .
We also have a few specific proposals in this respect .
Firstly , we would propose the provision of better information on financial products for citizens .
Secondly , we would like to see better and clearer dispute procedures for citizens who are dissatisfied with foreign financial dealers .
Thirdly , we would propose better harmonisation for the present national consumer protection rules .
The fourth proposal concerns electronic commerce , or e-commerce for short .
Policy and legislation should make provision for e-commerce without creating unnecessary barriers .
Does this mean that the European Central Bank in Frankfurt will be given a central supervisory role ?
The ECB itself is of the opinion that this is not necessary .
There is in fact an alternative , to wit , a coming together of supervisory systems .
At this juncture , Mr President , I would like to bring up a remark made by Mrs Randzio-Plath . It is an important remark .
Mrs Randzio-Plath has picked up some noises from the OECD and mentioned the word mega-risk .
Indeed , I think she is right to indicate the risks which can be inherent in financial movements .
This is a very important matter .
No doubt you will be able to find it on the Internet .
This report deals with the issue which is close to Mrs Randzio-Plath ' s heart and once again , I would strongly recommend all members attending this meeting to read it .
Well , most of the points I mentioned a moment ago can be found in the draft report of the rapporteur , Mr Garca-Margallo y Marfil , and also in many of the tabled amendments .
Everyone is currently in agreement that we need to drop over-complicated , fossilised legislation , in other words , rules which cannot keep pace with fast market development .
Accordingly , the process by which the European Union , i.e. the concerted efforts of Commission , Parliament and Council , lays down rules should be quicker .
But how exactly can this be done ?
I myself have been a Member of Parliament for a long time , so I fully understand where Mr Garca-Margallo y Marfil is coming from .
In fact , this is not the Commission ' s intention , even if it was authorised to take decisions in this respect , which is not the case .
Nonetheless , we need to proceed faster in order to lay down the necessary rules .
I would invite the Members of this Parliament to come up with any ideas as to how we could speed up and enhance the process .
Should we make more use of comitology procedures ?
Should more weight be given to agreement reached between the institutions upon first reading ?
In any event , I would like to keep this Parliament informed of all the developments regarding the action plan .
Every six months , we send a progress report to the ECOFIN Council and it seems to me that these reports could be used to exchange views with Parliament on this matter .
Mr President , most speakers have expressed their thoughts on the issue of pensions and I would like to say the following on this matter .
In its communication on pensions , the Commission has included proposals on three fronts .
The first area is prudential rules for pension funds , and protecting pension scheme members should take centre stage .
There is no question that rules could be introduced which could threaten the rights of future pensioners . This is beyond dispute .
However , this does not detract from the fact that investment and management rules can also serve the interests of people other than pension scheme members .
In fact futile provisions that inhibit the results of investments , do pension scheme members no favours and must be repealed for this reason .
Secondly , the coordination of national tax systems is a condition for cross-border participation .
Mrs Peijs has asked me when we are getting mobile pensions for mobile people ?
Other Members too , such as Mr von Wogau and others , have talked about the need to enhance the mobility of workers within the European Union .
As already stated , this does not require harmonisation ( a word we need to use with discretion because it conjures up incorrect associations in certain Member States ) so much as coordination .
So it requires the coordination of tax systems which differ in terms of tariffs .
This coordination is a precondition for cross-border labour mobility .
The Commission is in the process of drafting a proposal , a general framework , intended to facilitate the payment of contributions by occupational pension institutions which are located in other Member States .
This general framework has also been requested , of course , in this meeting by Mr Medina Ortega , for example , while Mrs Peijs has also indicated the need to set up this general framework .
Moreover , I would like to refer to the constant jurisprudence of the Court of Justice .
This jurisprudence has demonstrated that the restrictions which apply to cross-border contributions and premiums are at odds with the Treaty .
The Commission ' s third objective is to remove the obstacles which migrant workers are faced with .
Mr President , concerning the motion for a resolution , I would first of all like to remark that this Parliament ' s support is crucially important if we want to translate these proposals into specific measures .
It was with great interest that I read the sterling report of the rapporteur , Mr Kuckelkorn , and the competent committees , a report that so far has covered an extensive and technically complex area .
I did not fail to notice that Parliament is backing the lines of policy proposed by the Commission .
With regard to the motion for a resolution , I would like to make the following brief comments .
The motion presses for the general introduction of the tax levy model that relies on the taxation of the pension payout whilst providing for tax exemption for contributions to the fund and returns on the fund .
The desirability of this model was once again underlined this evening by Mr Blokland , among others . Mr Blokland pointed this out and I share his view on this .
This is also echoed in the motion for a resolution .
Agreement on this approach would solve the problems of either double taxation or no taxation , which is what citizens and Member States are struggling with at the moment .
However , I would like to point out that this issue , as is known , only and exclusively concerns the competences of the Member States and , as such , falls outside the scope of the European Commission .
The Commission should ensure , however , if different systems continue to coexist in future too , that this does not have any adverse effects on workers exercising their right to mobility within the Union .
My answer to this is as follows , I hope it is clear : we need European prudential standards for all forms of occupational pension schemes .
These standards will differ in certain aspects according to the risks actually covered by the institutions .
But there is not one single technical reason why these different types of savings schemes could not be combined in one and the same directive .
I believe that this is not right .
Well now , Member States are thus given every opportunity to give certain pension products preferential treatment by using tax incentive measures , for example .
They can also demand that the products offered on their market , even if the institutions offering the service are based in another Member State , meet certain social criteria .
Employees and employers within one company or one sector are free to choose , according to the benefits and drawbacks of the products available on their market .
In other words , there is still a large degree of freedom for the Member States to arrange the pension systems within their own country as they see fit .
This freedom remains .
The Commission ' s ambition is to create , I repeat , one framework which liberalises the setting up and scope of pension funds for the benefit of all the members of such pension funds .
Accordingly , we need to set up this legal framework within the European Union which enables businesses and future pensioners to choose the products on offer within a transparent market by institutions which are adequately supervised .
Adequate supervision is crucial , as is liberalising the scope of pension funds .
Mr President , I would like to ask the Commissioner if he could also reply to my question .
I have been waiting for a reply for one and a half hours now .
I would , at long last , like to have a response to my question on cash management and the solution to this problem which is particularly hitting small and medium-sized businesses .
Mr President , I would prefer to address Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel ' s issue when I respond to the report on the internal market .
This would , however , mean that Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel would have to stay even longer at this meeting . This is not such a bad thing , in my opinion .
It is true that small and medium-sized businesses are facing obstacles in their cross-border activities .
The Commission is acutely aware of this .
Needless to say , the scope of the internal market is intended to facilitate cross-border activities for small and medium-sized businesses .
The new strategy for the internal market comprises one hundred or so measures , many of which will be beneficial to small and medium-sized businesses .
Thank you very much , Commissioner .
The joint debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Strategy for Europe ' s Internal Market
Mr President , Commissioner , the report which I have the honour to present is the result of an extraordinary collaboration - which I am grateful for - between people and committees .
Allow me to make two observations : the Committee on Legal Affairs has not accepted all the suggestions of the committee asked for an opinion .
That has been my criterion for recommending a vote in favour of the amendments presented in this House .
What was that message ?
That message stems from the position adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs in our resolution of 4 November 1999 .
If you will allow me , Mr President , I will concentrate on three ideas .
The first concern of the Committee on Legal Affairs -and I hope this House will ratify it tomorrow - is the concept of the situation of the internal market .
What does the internal market mean to European construction ?
These days we hear the siren song of globalisation and together with that goes the idea that we are international .
The internal market appears to have become very small in this new globalised economy .
Nothing could be further from the truth .
This document on the strategy for the internal market expresses this very clearly .
The internal market is Europe ' s platform in the world .
The internal market embodies the key principles of a globalised economy with advantages for Europe in terms of competition .
That is the first message of the Committee on Legal Affairs .
We need to put the emphasis on the principles of the internal market : the principle of proportionality , the principle of mutual recognition , the principle of control of origin .
These must be the great pillars upon which this strategy for the internal market is built .
We will not make the headlines with this , but it is important nonetheless .
The application and control of Community legislation is also important . The Member States must cooperate in this application .
We must oppose procedures which are used too frequently , such as ' gold plating ' .
We need to strengthen our infringement procedure , we need to consolidate it , make it more transparent and more accessible .
We ask that decisions on the outcome of infringement proceedings be explained and that Parliament be informed of them .
We ask that infringement cases be processed more quickly and that they be more effectively presented to the citizen .
These contradictions are seen by the citizen and by industry as burdens , as a lack of clarity in the message regarding the direction we are taking .
Lastly , the third message is a change in the business culture in Europe .
We need businesspeople who are more willing to take risks .
To this end we will have to change certain laws , such as for example the European laws on insolvency in general , on the suspension of payments and bankruptcy .
We need to put the emphasis on the creation of a genuine capital risk market .
We need to convince young Europeans , as young Americans are already convinced , that the best option is not to join a large company , on a long-term basis , but to create new companies .
In all of this , electronic commerce , the Internet and new technologies must offer a good platform .
Finally , Mr President , to sum up , I hope that tomorrow , on voting for the resolution , Parliament will send a clear message .
We are behind the Commission in this initiative and of course we want to participate in the whole process , permanently , cooperating , offering ideas and monitoring the situation .
Mr President , once again the European Parliament must express its opinion on the Commission communication on the construction of the internal market , in this case , a new version of it .
A proportion of its content affects the competences of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs .
It is these points which I wish to discuss specifically .
Firstly , I would like to say that , in general , one of the criticisms levelled at previous versions of this documents no longer applies .
The European Parliament ' s resolution of 4 November 1999 said that the document was rather unspecific , that it did not contain specific actions .
This new version does contain specific measures and proposals .
Let us then analyse the content of these proposals , albeit in general terms .
With regard to taxation , the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is that the Communication is not ambitious enough , especially when compared to previous documents .
We notice a lack of such political courage in this document since the chapter on tax simply reproduces previous Commission commitments , and even leaves aside some of the European Parliament ' s proposals .
Secondly , in relation to the rules on competition , the Communication opts for deepening the process of reform underway , and this deserves our support .
We are starting with a European social model - which is a national model - and we are transforming the economic structure of that society .
In doing so , we are concerned that the effort to liberalise should not transform the essence of the current European social model .
An example of this can be found in an area as apparently banal as urban transport .
If urban transport is not subjected to political considerations and the intervention of local authorities , for example , straightforward liberalisation could make it practically impossible for us to reach our workplaces .
We have had examples such as the case of Venezuela where a strictly private system of public transport led to a profound social and political crisis in that country .
Liberalisation presents other difficulties .
Liberalisation by means of privatising public companies may end up consolidating dominant positions and private monopolies which in my opinion may offer fewer benefits than a monopoly conceived in the public interest .
Another aspect - which we referred to in the recent debate on the Kuckelkorn report - is the need to coordinate social protection .
Social protection in a single internal market cannot simply be left to subsidiarity .
Lastly , cohesion also seems to me to be important .
This is the basis of the amendments which Mrs Berger and I are presenting , representing the views of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs .
The lack of action is related to the original conception of this policy .
At the same time it lays down restrictions on exercising fishing activities in certain areas known as ' boxes ' .
In my opinion , the fishing industry and the common fisheries policy should also be subject to derogations in respect of the internal market .
Mr President , on behalf of our Group I should like to warmly welcome Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi ' s excellent report .
As she said in her introduction , she has made the very wise decision to focus on what are the most critical issues for the creation of the single market .
I want to focus on a couple of the principal points that she makes .
The first one is the need to address , within the Union , the impact of legislation on business .
I say to the Commissioner that we do not expect this to be done as an after-thought , after all the departments in the Commission have developed legislation .
It needs to be an integral part of the policy and regulation process .
He must make sure that from now on that a central objective is to help the internal market to move forward .
We were delighted to see a second point on the agenda at Lisbon .
I am disappointed to see that our Socialist colleagues are proposing that clause should be taken out of this resolution .
I can assure them that we will vigorously oppose that tomorrow .
I invite colleagues to reject that proposal .
I conclude by confirming that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market will continue to press vigorously for the speedy completion of the internal market .
I give credit to all our colleagues , across all political groups , for the speed with which we have dealt with the electronic commerce directive this week .
I hope that is appreciated . I hope it will demonstrate that we are prepared to work with speed .
I hope that , together , we can really make the internal market work as quickly as possible .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I feel nothing but appreciation for Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi ' s clear draft report .
It concisely outlines and highlights the key points from the Commission ' s communication on the strategy to be followed for Europe ' s internal market .
I would like to highlight some of these points .
In order to keep pace with the present breakneck speed at which technology is developing , it is not only desirable but essential to keep the dialogue going .
So far , the average citizen has had insufficient insight into what drives the Union and what can be gained from European cooperation .
This is why information campaigns are essential . After all , Europe cannot afford to remain a remote spectacle .
Back to basics should be our motto .
The e-Europe initiative praises the use and expertise of Internet and multimedia .
This is very commendable indeed but , rather than just creating a frame , it is more important to give substance to education .
We have a duty to build this great common house in which each individual nevertheless feels at home .
A house in which everyone lives together , in a spirit of solidarity , but in which each individual retains his or her identity " .
In order to meet these objectives , the residents need to get to know and get a feel for their house , or rather their home .
In order to build a genuine internal market , we should , more than anything , concentrate on promoting the interests of small and medium-sized businesses .
To this day , there are still too many obstacles .
Companies ' competitiveness and dynamism depend directly on a regulating climate which is conducive to investment , innovation and entrepreneurship .
Finally , I can only echo the need for SLIM .
Legislation must become simpler and must be written in a clear language .
Superfluous legislation should be withdrawn .
It would therefore be beneficial to draw up a scoreboard of laws which have been abolished .
Mr President , I would like to speak on a point of order .
During the debate , Mr Harbour referred to an amendment tabled on behalf of Mrs Berger and myself - Amendment No 2 , paragraph 22 ( 2 ) .
If I am not mistaken , Mr Harbour said that he was opposed to our amendment .
I believe that there has been a little confusion .
In the Spanish version which I have there is no problem .
The amendment is based on the German text , which causes some concern because it refers to the issue of share options .
I imagine that in the English text which Mr Harbour has there is no problem either .
The Spanish text simply says " remove the barriers imposed on entrepreneurs capitalising on company value through the issue of share options on the stock exchange " .
If this is the correct text , there is really no problem , in which case I would withdraw that amendment and simply ask for the German version to be adapted to what is said in the Spanish text .
Mr President , many thanks for giving me the floor regarding an issue which is very dear to the Commission as a whole and myself , in particular , namely the new strategy for the internal market .
To begin with , I would like to extend my warm thanks to Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi for the ardent support she has shown for the set of measures proposed by the Commission .
The Commission feels confirmed in its intention thanks to this important vote of confidence coming from this Parliament .
Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi has mentioned three topics .
Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi ' s second remark highlights a number of inconsistencies .
According to her , sometimes one does not know where one stands .
This would be a serious shortcoming if it were true to this extent .
I would like to thank Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi and the other Members for their comments regarding specific inconsistencies between rules . This will enable the Commission to do something about this .
Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi ' s third remark concerns the change in culture .
This is an important yet very difficult topic , which predominantly refers to the availability of risk capital , as Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi has also pointed out .
There happen to be bankers in the risk capital industry who believe that Europe has the money but lacks the entrepreneurs .
I happen to disagree with these critics .
Responsibility lies with both camps . The bottleneck is the result of both the availability of risk capital , especially the cost of risk capital , but we are also , of course , lacking the sufficient entrepreneurship .
I hence agree with Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi that something needs to be done to breathe new life into Europe ' s entrepreneurial culture .
After having expressed my thanks once again to the rapporteur , Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi , I would now like to move on to remarks made by Mr Berenguer Fuster .
According to him , the Commission should have more political courage , especially in the fiscal domain .
My response to Mr Berenguer Fuster is : should the Commission have yet more political courage ?
What the Commission is trying to bring about is already so hard to achieve .
I would like to oppose such reasoning which has no foundations in the real world .
This would not be the right attitude , in my opinion .
Although Mr Berenguer Fuster has not said this in so many words of course , I would still like to take the opportunity to stress this point .
I ask Mr Berenguer Fuster if he would like the Commission to have yet more political courage ?
We are already struggling to achieve what we have proposed .
I would like to see the Commission achieve what it has proposed to do first and then take it from there .
Mr Berenguer Fuster has also said that a great deal still needs to be done in the field of financial services . And he is right , of course .
Mr Berenguer Fuster is undoubtedly familiar with the action plan for financial services which was adopted on 13 May 1999 and which includes 43 objectives .
We are in the process of achieving these , at least we are in the process of achieving those objectives that need to be achieved this year .
We are truly active in the field which is dear to Mr Berenguer Fuster .
I would now like to comment on a remark made by Mr Medina Ortega .
He said that at present , there is a risk of state monopolies being replaced by private monopolies .
I would like to assure Mr Medina Ortega that this is , of course , by no means the intention .
Replacing a state monopoly by a private monopoly only makes matters worse .
This is certainly not the intention of this Commission .
The Commission is trying to flesh this out and this also means that those state monopolies need to allow for more competition in the fields I mentioned a moment ago .
But , I repeat , the prospect of replacing state monopolies by private monopolies is something which we do not exactly relish .
The Commission is aware that , for example , the costs involved in establishing a business or a small business over here far outstrip the costs in the United States .
To give you an idea of the cost difference , it takes an average of five days to set up a small or medium-sized business in the United States .
In Europe it takes far longer , even as long as five months , a ratio of 1 in 30 .
This is , of course , directly reflected in the cost .
Finally , I would like to turn to Mrs Berger as I have already responded to Mr Beysen ' s remarks concerning small and medium-sized businesses .
I have quoted what Mrs Berger said earlier about the hat which you cannot simply take off .
I like this metaphor because it is true that European citizens have the feeling that this internal market is already in place . They take it for granted and do not give it any further thought .
This could not be further from the truth .
The internal market is far from complete .
Mrs Berger was right to refer to directives which remain in the Council .
We are all familiar with examples of directives which remain in a vacuum for five , ten or even fifteen years because they are not adopted by the Council .
Let us hope that this will change .
I read in an article in a Spanish newspaper that the issue is moving in the right direction . This would actually unblock half a dozen directives .
We are all waiting for this moment .
To sum up , on the subject of Echelon , I can assure Mrs Berger that this is completely unrelated to the internal market and does not form any threat to it whatsoever .
Mr President , this concludes my remarks .
Could I once again express my appreciation to the Members of Parliament and the rapporteur , in particular , for the important vote of confidence which we received from Parliament regarding the new strategy for the internal market ?
Thank you very much , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
2001 : European Year of Languages
Mr President , I should like to thank Mr Graa Moura for a splendid piece of work and for the energy he has put into drawing up this report .
I should also like to thank the Council for being so accommodating and the Commission for the role it has played as mediator , especially just recently .
The Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party is very happy to support initiatives which may create greater awareness of the value of linguistic diversity in the European Union .
It is important that the EU ' s citizens should be encouraged to learn foreign languages early on in school and also throughout their lives .
The programme for the European Year of Languages offers a splendid basis for providing information about the many different opportunities there are for learning foreign languages , and it is important .
Mr Graa Moura ' s proposal includes the 11 official EU languages , together with a number of other languages recognised by the Member States , including Irish and Luxembourgish .
On behalf of the Group , I can recommend supporting this programme .
Mr President , needless to say , I too would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent and exquisite work .
I would like to make a few minor observations regarding a European campaign which intends to teach Europeans languages from other communities .
We are all convinced of the usefulness of this exercise , of course .
This is a terrible observation to have to make .
I would also add our own mother tongue to the equation .
This great truth emerges from a fact rather unknown to most , that in the English language , for example , there are at least 75 000 words of Greek origin .
I repeat , 75 000 English words derive from classical Greek .
There are a similar number of words in the French language that derive from Greek , and the same is true of most other modern European languages .
It is also certain that Latin is just as important for most European languages .
Besides , the contemporary German professors , August and Werner-Karl Heisenberg , have characterised both classical and modern Greek as the mother and nurturer of human civilisation .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to thank the rapporteur .
The European Year of Languages is important and worthwhile .
All the languages of Europe are equally valuable and worthy of respect in terms of culture .
It could be said that the people who speak the same language share the same mentality .
The mother tongue is not merely a tool of communication , it is in fact more than anything else , it is thought itself .
Language is the most peaceful way of communicating .
Independence is language and language is independence .
The Kurds are a nation with no land or borders of their own , kept together only by language .
Language is a powerful force .
It is the most important bond for a nation .
Large countries , and many smaller ones too , often tyrannise others through language .
It is a means of occupation .
The legislation regarding language in my country is among the most liberal in the world .
We have seen how two different foreign languages have twice been proclaimed the official language ; only at the beginning of last century did our language , Finnish , become the official one .
That is why we have guaranteed the important status of minority languages .
The multilingual nature of the European Union is thus a source of wealth .
At the same time it is also the right of each citizen in each Member State .
The multilingual nature of Europe must be preserved after enlargement too ; there are no obstacles to this .
It is wrong to think that a multilingual environment is costly and ineffective .
Translation is not costly ; it is the most effective practical instrument of peace .
When we speak of European languages , let us not forget that this does not only mean the official languages of the Member States .
Furthermore , the learning of languages leads to an awareness of our cultural diversity and contributes to the eradication of xenophobia , racism and intolerance , which forms part of our Community objectives .
However , I would also like to express certain concerns with regard to the economic restrictions .
I would recommend that many projects be allowed since it is clear that cultural projects attract a lot of investment from Autonomous Regions and private initiatives which we cannot afford to lose .
I am referring , for example , to Ladino and Yiddish .
These languages furthermore do not have any media of their own .
I would like this European Year of Languages to be opened up to them as well and that a space be made for them so that they may be considered in any other future programmes which may take place .
What better rapporteur could there be ?
Then , suddenly , one finds that one is going to have to deal with something that gives Europe its historic and cultural depth , namely its languages .
In terms of languages , Europe has known times when a single language predominated : Latin , and also French .
Now it tends to be English .
So what are we to tell our fellow citizens for this year 2001 .
Let me just briefly mention a few points .
Firstly , that European unity may not mean linguistic unity .
Next , that every language is deserving of respect and deserves to be promoted and defended .
This is applicable to any amount of things : monuments , objects , you name it .
Why should it not be the case for mankind ' s best and most lasting achievement , i.e. his method of communicating with his neighbour ?
And then , all languages are learnt within the family first of all .
It is up to us to construct this dialectic of European unity and its linguistic diversity .
Thank you very much , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Youth
Mr President , I am very pleased to add my support and my group ' s support to this report .
This report had a long gestation period .
The report we have ended up with now is more closely targeted , with an emphasis on social protection and , as the rapporteur has said , a more flexible approach than in earlier reports .
We also have more money in the programme in recognition of its importance .
We will always ask for more money .
The budget is not enough .
It is perhaps Parliament ' s role to ask for more .
But we can be pleased with the outcome .
We can be sure that whatever money we have in this programme will be directed at youth and will , in the long-term , be money well spent .
We must look to those who will benefit most and those who are in greatest need and who might otherwise be socially excluded .
We are delighted that some candidate countries of Central and Eastern Europe will benefit as well .
We can be pleased with our efforts and pleased with this report .
In seven years ' time we will look back at the youth of today who will have benefited from this report and be pleased that this was the beginning of real progress .
Mr President , I should like to thank Mrs Grner for her splendid work and for the personal , almost passionate commitment she has shown in preparing the present report .
I should also like to thank the Council and the Commission for contributing to our at long last achieving a good result .
The strength of the programme is , of course , that , by means of cross-national exchanges , it encourages young people to contribute actively to further European integration .
It will also lead to understanding of the cultural and linguistic diversity within the European Union .
I also think that the programme will ensure that the fundamental values upon which the European Union is founded will continue to be propagated .
Through increased communication between young people in Europe , the programme will indirectly help combat xenophobia and increase respect for human rights .
I would recommend that we support this programme .
Mr President , I also commend the report and thank Mrs Grner for the excellent effort she has made .
It is a very good report .
Youth is the sector in our Community that is so often ignored .
Indeed in the Committee on Culture , Youth , Education , the Media and Sport it is the " Cinderella " sector of funding , as with sport .
We hope that imbalance will be redressed .
I hope that does not happen .
We should include the best parts of those excellent initiatives in whatever programme we formulate in future .
The new Youth Programme emphasises the developing links with the youth of entrant countries .
That is an excellent initiative .
The bridges built between youth will be the bridges that eventually unite Europe .
The agreement to constantly review the situation is an initiative that I welcome .
When more funds are needed , budgets should not be cast in stone but be flexible so that they can be amended in the best interests of the deserving needs of youth .
What more deserving cause could there be than supporting youth in the European Union .
Mr President , I would like to join all those who have congratulated the rapporteur , Mrs Grner , who has produced an excellent report , full of commitment , on behalf of young people .
In her task she has enjoyed the very strong support of the members of the Committee on Culture , Youth , Education , the Media and Sport . I offer them my thanks for their work .
The Youth programme is crucial to the European Union , as you have all already said , because it is a unique programme , in which all young people , without distinction , can participate .
I would like to reassure all Members who have spoken about possible sanctions .
In the Youth programme and in the way it is implemented , there will be no sanctions against anyone , and that includes young Austrians , who will not be discriminated against .
The programme has ambitious objectives , which are essential to the development of the idea of European citizenship .
This programme will encourage and consolidate the continuation and development of innovative actions at Community level and will help to improve the quality of the action undertaken on behalf of young people .
It therefore represents a useful instrument in assisting a policy of cooperation and will contribute to the process of European integration .
Mr President , I wish to take this opportunity to talk about the youth policy of the future .
In fact , I stood before you for the first time last September . I spoke of the White Paper on the European Union ' s youth policy , which is a priority .
I would now like to clarify the role of this White Paper and the role of political catalyst that youth policy must play in the future .
I hope to prepare the White Paper on the basis of broad consultation with the different parties concerned and when I say the parties involved I mean above all young people .
That is why , at the Youth Council on 23 November last year , I proposed to the Member States ' Ministers for Youth that they hold national meetings of young people during the first half of 2000 .
This proposal was very warmly received by all the Member States and these meetings are being organised at the moment .
These meetings must allow young people to play an active role and to assert their aspirations , their expectations and their opinions , but also their recommendations for political action in the areas that affect them .
The various national meetings will culminate in a huge European meeting which will be held at the beginning of October , under the French Presidency .
At the same time as consulting young people , the Commission hopes to consult those responsible for youth policy at national level .
The Commission hopes that these national authorities will be able to incorporate into their contributions the opinions and expectations of local administrations , which play a considerable role , I believe , in youth policy .
In order to achieve this , the Commission will be holding bilateral meetings with Member States , followed by a discussion seminar with youth leaders .
Lastly , I would like to include the European Parliament in this exercise .
Ladies and gentlemen , there is a considerable amount of work to be done , but it is exciting .
Thank you very much , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Before the sitting is closed , I would like to thank the interpreters for their generous cooperation this evening , since we have exceeded the time allotted .
( The sitting was closed at 12.45 a.m. )
Principles for recording taxes and social contributions
This is particularly true with regard to the shaping of the European single market , a context in which we require statistical data which is comparable and equivalent between the different Member States .
This is a serious issue which has been debated .
Both calculation procedures should inevitably lead us to the same figure , which will be the outcome of the tax in that financial year .
I would also add that there is no other accounting method which would correctly record revenue in a budget .
On the other hand , it is obvious that the option to use either of the two methods offers the advantage of a speedier adaptation on the part of those who choose one or other of the systems .
I therefore take a favourable view of the proposal and I congratulate the Commission .
A study of the Commission proposal shows that the treatment of taxes and social contributions should indeed follow the two proposed methods .
Mr President , the Commission ' s initiative on presenting this regulation intended to unify the principles for recording taxes and social contributions is very appropriate .
In order for the accounting methods of the different Member States to be homogenous , as the rapporteur has pointed out , they must use the same criteria .
In short , the cash receipt criterion makes it more difficult to indulge in that accounting trickery which used to be known euphemistically as ' creative accounting ' .
As you know , accounts which do not offer a true picture can be called anything but accounts .
The income criterion , if it is not corrected , for example , by means of the obligation to make provision for non-payment , is an inadequate criterion .
Thanks to this manipulation of the accounts , to this ' creative accounting ' , the deficit criteria for joining the first phase of economic and monetary union were complied with .
Obviously , this juggling of accounts will not be possible if the Commission ' s proposal is approved .
It is perhaps for this reason that the Spanish Members from the PPE Group have presented certain amendments and have tried to delay the approval of this report .
It is not a question of revising now what was done in the past .
Ladies and gentlemen , what is done is done .
It is a question of demanding , from now on , greater rigour ; it is a question of demanding that accounting figures reflect the true picture of a country ' s accounts .
Ladies and gentlemen , if rigour in accounting is demanded , it should be so from the outset .
Mr President , firstly I wish to thank Mrs Thyssen for her gesture and for her defence of the amendment we are presenting .
Having said this and leaving aside accusations which are truly libellous at the moment , I would like to defend the idea of an extended transition period of two years .
This change is a complicated change .
As any expert knows , the estimations in accordance with ESA 95 require breakdowns which affect no less than 60 accounting categories .
Secondly , this profound and complex change must be done in a gradual way .
As Mrs Thyssen has pointed out , changing and adapting the accounting rules requires a certain amount of time .
We are being asked to change a regulation which entered into force a few months ago .
The PPE-DE ' s amendment asks for the change to be introduced gradually .
Mr President , I think we would all agree that , if we are to run the Community properly , we need a high-quality statistical base within the Community and the applicant countries .
There has been a broad welcome in the House for this proposal and the apparent ability to give priority to the revenue actually collected rather than the more notional contributions which may be due .
This is certainly a step forward .
It seems logical to use the revenue collected as the basis for determining the actual percentage deficit .
Overall , this is a useful step forward .
I welcome the commitment of the Commission . I hope that we can work together and see this translated into Community law with suitable adjustments as soon as possible .
This proposal is basically of a technical nature and is intended to fill the current legislative vacuum which allows for differing interpretations depending on the position adopted by each Member State .
The Commission is very happy that our proposal has received broad support and is happy with the report adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , which I will comment on shortly .
However , I firstly wish to thank especially the rapporteur , Mr Knrr Borrs , for his work , which , on this complex and technical issue , has offered us great support .
The rapporteur stresses in his report that the objective of the proposal is to arrive at the same figure , regardless of the statistical sources used , and in reality this is our objective .
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has approved eight amendments and the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1 , 2 , 3 , 7 and 8 without any difficulty .
There is a ninth amendment , presented later , which I will also comment on .
The Commission would prefer not to maintain Amendments Nos 4 , 5 and 6 .
The aim of these amendments differs from that of the regulation .
We hope that this approach will lead to a resolution of the problem raised .
This has been the case , for example , with the exceptions allowed for certain Member States within the ESA 95 regulations .
We are therefore talking about a technical problem , of not having the capacity to provide data .
This is the reason why the Commission does not consider Amendment No 9 to be acceptable .
Thank you very much , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
COM in bananas
, rapporteur .
The banana issue is a perfect example of the difficulties the Union is experiencing in establishing the European model the institutions evoke so often .
Under constant attack since its adoption , this regulation eventually led to several WTO rulings against us , the latest in April 1999 .
Always quick on the draw , the United States immediately drew up retaliatory trade measures against Union countries .
To comply with the WTO , the Commission is proposing to go over to a ' tariff only ' formula , that is , eliminating quotas and introducing a flat rate tariff at an unknown level .
As we know , this system has already been attacked by the majority of operators and producers from all geographic areas .
The stakes are high .
Since 1993 , the position of the Community producers has been constantly deteriorating .
The same applies to many ACP countries , traditional suppliers .
It is impossible for these producers to maintain fair competition with the great producers and operators in the international network .
We should also remember that over 60 % of the bananas consumed in the Union come from non-ACP third countries .
It is not a question of practising protectionism , but rather of protecting the permanence of a certain method of production .
It is not just the banana we are trying to defend , but a whole production network , which entire regions often depend on to survive .
The margin of manoeuvre is technically narrow , but the choice of a reform model is political .
We need to know what our objectives are .
As I see it , the first priority is to defend the European model at the international level .
That is certainly the position the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development unanimously adopted .
Here I would like to thank all my colleagues very warmly for their effective cooperation on this issue , and Mr Westendorp and Mr Fernndez Martn for their excellent work too .
Why should it be any different for bananas ?
In any case , accompanying measures are essential to ensure the permanence and viability of Community and ACP production .
I hope Parliament will follow the line proposed by the Committee on Agriculture , but we also need the understanding of the Council and the Commission .
Ladies and gentlemen , as we now have a new report before us and a new team here in the Chamber , I must repeat what I said at the beginning .
I would like to ask for your help in making sure that we finish by 11.30 a.m. , as that is when voting time begins , and we cannot overrun .
, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy .
( ES ) Mr President , I will be very brief .
Firstly , with regard to the international obligations of the European Union , not only towards the ACP countries , but also within the World Trade Organisation .
As you know , the European Union has been condemned for its regime of granting licences for this product , but has maintained the viability of the quota regime proposed by Mr Dary .
In fact , in the Commission ' s current negotiations , it appears that the main suppliers would prefer this system .
For all these reasons , my committee voted in favour of Mr Dary ' s draft report .
Mr President , we all want to see the end of the ' banana war ' , but the immense complexity of the problem deceives no one .
So on this issue - I know - the Commission ' s task is not an easy one .
It is torn between contradictory positions and I understand the difficulties encountered in trying to reconcile the various interests .
I am sorry , too , that we have not fought for the retention of a specific quota for the ACP countries which alone guaranteed them access to the market .
But the rapporteur ' s proposal is satisfactory because it defends the quota system and rejects any automatic move to an exclusively tariff-based regime .
So I thank him and I also thank Mr Fernndez Martn for putting the committee ' s point of view .
Of course , the ACP countries know they must adapt to world trade .
But let us give them time . Let us give them enough time , let us give them the means to produce their plants themselves , let us help them build their greenhouses .
Let us encourage organic farming and , in ten years , believe me , the price of African bananas will have fallen to the level of dollar bananas .
They will then become competitive .
If we impose the brutality of an exclusively tariff-based regime too rapidly , bananas are going to taste incredibly bitter to thousands of small African producers .
Mr President , the Committee on Development and Cooperation , on whose behalf I speak , broadly supports the report by Mr Dary and , in general , rejects the Commission ' s proposal .
I take comfort in the fact that I am not the only one .
The Commission ' s proposal has not been well received by anyone , neither by the Community producers , nor by the ACP countries .
It seems that the Council cannot easily accept it .
Parliament does not like it either .
What is even more serious however is that not even the United States like it .
In this proposal , the Commission not only renounces the defence of Community interests and the interests of the ACP countries but has also , in my opinion , abandoned the minimum degree of neutrality required .
The World Trade Organisation condemned the system of licences in force , which must undoubtedly be modified .
However , the Commission proposes many other things .
It proposes removing any type of quota , and I would like to ask : does it intend in the future to remove the system of aid to producers ?
Has the Commission decided to begin the reform of the common agricultural policy with a reform of the COM in bananas ?
After bananas , will other sectors fall ?
When will we stop protecting Austrian white wines , for example , ?
This clearly remains an open question within the WTO .
It is in defence of our obligations and commitments to the ACP countries that the amendments have been presented on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation .
The banana controversy is a good example of how hard it is to reconcile the interests of the fifteen Member States , the Union , the ACP banana producing countries , European consumers and our trading partners .
I congratulate the Commission for striving to reach a compromise that has regard to the various interest groups .
It is right that the European Union should bear responsibility for seeing that European agricultural producers , including banana producers , earn a sufficient income .
I would like to express my concern regarding the consequences of Mr Dary ' s report for trade policy .
To adopt the report as it is could result in a strong reaction from our trading partners , as it does not even include the possibility of talks to ease access to the market .
There is strong evidence that some Latin American countries will refuse to accept import quotas - at least not without the prospect of better access to EU markets .
Secondly , if our trading partners receive permission from the WTO to even disregard intellectual property rights , the costs of sanctions will be enormous and could cause long-term damage to EU businesses .
Thirdly , continued breaches of the regulations will hurt our image internationally in matters of trade , which might weaken the case for the European agricultural subsidy model .
This , meanwhile , would have very serious consequences for the whole of European agriculture .
It is high time we showed ourselves to be credible and mature trading partners , as waking up to the realities of the present will accord with our real interests in the long term .
That we are seeking elimination of any automatic movement to ' tariff only ' should not be regarded as downright rejection of the measure .
Our intention is to let the situation develop in a way that is economically and socially tolerable for our producers and those of the ACP countries , without damaging the openness of our market .
So the European Union certainly has arguments to present to the WTO , so that this time our approach is recognised as valid .
Of course , the Union may have difficulty determining the quotas in the immediate future , but is that exercise any more difficult than agreeing on adjustments to the customs tariff in the ' tariff only ' hypothesis ?
Mr President , it is high time that we resolved this complex and long-standing issue once and for all .
It will not be possible to satisfy fully all these claims and therefore we have to accept a compromise .
The Commission 's proposal is a compromise between those who demand an immediate move to a tariff only system and those who wish to ignore the WTO rulings and stick with the flawed regime as it is .
That is why the majority of the ELDR Group supports the Commission 's proposal to continue a tariff-rate quota system for a transitional period before moving to a definitive tariff only system .
The Dary report , on the other hand , is premised on the somewhat unrealistic notion that we can ignore rulings from the WTO altogether .
It gives complete priority to the concerns of EU banana producers over the equally legitimate concerns of innocent EU businesses in other sectors suffering from arbitrary US sanctions .
Most strange of all , it risks complicating matters so much further that the Commission , as stated in its proposal of November last year , will be obliged to move directly to a tariff only system .
This would be exactly the opposite of the objectives of those who support this report .
I have also heard that during the vote , which will take place either today or tomorrow , some may advocate referral back to committee .
This would be an undignified act of foot-dragging which would do nothing to address the long-term issues at stake .
We need stability for European and ACP banana producers and EU consumers .
That can be done by rejecting this report and supporting the Commission 's compromise proposal .
Less than seven years have passed since the entry into force of the COM on bananas , and the Commission is now proposing a profound modification of its operation .
Furthermore , this has been preceded by disputes within the World Trade Organisation which have generated uncertainties and which have led to difficulties in its correct functioning for Community producers .
For us , a transitional period until 2006 , as proposed by the Commission , is not acceptable , and we should wait at least until 2010 before deciding on possible reforms .
The Commission proposes a quota of 353 000 tonnes and a possible increase in the event of a rise in demand .
Given that the additional tariff quota is not consolidated , its quantity should be capable of being adapted to Community demand , not only in the event of an increase , but also in the event of a decrease .
In any event , we should safeguard the Community preference and prevent any marginalisation of Community production .
I would therefore , Mr President , like to offer my heartfelt congratulations to Mr Dary .
We support his report .
He has been generous with the amendments of the different political groups .
Furthermore , I hope that the Commission will send a clear political signal which will take account of his points of view .
So they represent an essential element in the balance of the economic and social fabric of these fragile territories .
Are we willing to sacrifice production which means life or death to some of our territories for peace at the WTO ?
That is why it has been unanimously rejected not only by our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development , but also by the ACP-EU Joint Assembly and the French Parliament .
So I hope our Parliament will follow the Committee on Agriculture , and the European Commission will feel obliged to make new proposals to us , more in accordance with European interests and our cooperation with the ACP countries .
We are giving the United States a marvellous present there !
Well , it is not enough !
The United States wants more .
Technically , what does it want ?
It wants the end of import licences , because the B licences give Community bananas and ACP bananas priority sales over dollar bananas .
But , most of all and politically , the United States actually wants the monopoly of the future Eastern European market for their multinationals .
What is Europe doing to face that challenge ?
It is divided and getting bogged down .
We are divided from our German friends .
Indeed , because of the ancient links with the 1945 German diaspora to Latin America , Germany has eaten 100 % dollar bananas since 1960 - though at first they were ' armband ' bananas .
So much so - it is an open secret - that the three American banana multinationals put their banana butter on SPD and CDU parsnips .
But we are also getting bogged down in technical proposals .
From 2006 , there would no longer be anything but a common customs tariff which would have equal impact on the bananas of the poor of Africa and the bananas of the rich , the multinationals .
We could undoubtedly challenge that , and our excellent rapporteur , Mr Dary , does challenge it .
He proposes that the respite of six years be extended to ten years .
Another four years , Mr American executioner !
And we have tabled amendments too .
Well , all that is very fine , but the battle is elsewhere .
The battle is for Community preference , first and foremost .
We have to choose : either the Canaries , Madeira and the Antilles - or Chiquita .
It is regional policy that is at stake .
Do we want the outermost regions which depend 100 % on bananas , like the Canaries , to survive , or do we want Dole and Chiquita to accumulate more wealth ?
It is cooperation policy that is at stake .
We have to choose : either Africa and the Lom Convention , or the WTO .
The United States was found guilty of two billion dollars ' worth of fiscal fraud and it has changed nothing .
When the United States alters its policy , we will discuss the mere 191 million for bananas .
When the United States stops cheating for the benefit of Boeing , Kodak , Cargil and Ford , we will discuss bananas .
In the meantime , we need long , global , political negotiations .
We must talk about Iraq , Echelon , Serbia ; put everything on the table .
Sanction for sanction , retaliation for retaliation . The banana is a moment of truth .
Europe can either surrender or stand up and be counted .
There is a saying that bananas can be eaten from both ends .
Does Europe want to stand up or be eaten from both ends ?
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , we must put an end to the tug of war over a system that complies with the WTO Agreement .
The EU has not exactly covered itself in glory in this almost endless debate .
I respect the Member States ' efforts to protect their banana producers against a considerable loss of income , but such considerations cannot justify persistently refusing to comply with agreements under international law .
No one should underestimate the adverse impact of export restrictions of this kind on the economies of export-oriented countries , and above all on related jobs .
This is an area where some Member States are indulging in protectionism at the expense of others .
We pay subsidies to banana producers , we have to grapple with punitive tariffs , and we have to pay excessive banana prices in our supermarkets .
The lack of competitiveness of EU banana production cannot be allowed to justify a refusal to accept uniform and non-discriminatory access to the European market .
Mr President , Commissioner , it falls to me to summarise the problems of the COM in bananas in just a few minutes .
The reason for that is simple . The banana is now one of the great basic human foodstuffs and control of the trade clearly has a geostrategic dimension .
This is a tropical fruit marketed in the Northern hemisphere and its distribution is also a fundamental part of North-South cooperation .
Such a development would be contrary to the actual purpose of regional policy and the common agricultural policy - the two pillars of the European Union - and we do not want that under any circumstances .
So we must resolutely set the prospect to one side by adopting the Dary report . I congratulate and thank Mr Dary .
It is our duty to preserve everything the Union stands for , especially on the eve of its enlargement .
Mr President , the defenders of the interests of the multinationals in this Parliament have not studied the subject of bananas properly .
They have not studied it properly because they talk about the multiple decisions of the World Trade Organisation and Community violations of international law .
In fact , so far the World Trade Organisation has only declared two extremes incompatible with international commercial law .
The first is the partnership system which linked the importing of non-Community bananas with that of Community bananas .
Community regulations on bananas were modified to comply with that decision .
The second refers to the incompatibility of the exemption in favour of ACP countries within the Community system .
In other respects , the Community system is wholly in accordance with community rules , international law and the rules of the World Trade Organisation .
The problem is that in this case the Commission has been more papist than the Pope and , as Mr Fernndez Martn has pointed out , more in favour of free trade than the multinationals themselves .
For many of us , bananas are a national issue , since they are related to our history and our culture .
Mr President , it is important for this House to approve Mr Dary ' s report , as the Commission proposal to introduce a tariff only system for banana imports by 2006 is unacceptable .
The flat-rate system that the Commission intends to introduce would cause producers in the outermost regions of the European Union , such as Madeira and the ACP countries , to go bankrupt .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , in the long run , we cannot swim against the tide of free and fair world trade with the common organisation of the market in bananas .
We ourselves also have to observe the rules that we signed up to when the WTO was founded .
By infringing them and thus triggering sanctions , we are already blocking access to the major US markets - and also increasingly to Latin America ' s markets - for whole sectors of our economy .
We will be jointly responsible for large numbers of lay-offs in these sectors if we as the European Union do not change our stance .
That is why we - and I am now speaking on behalf of a significant minority in the PPE Group , which could be a majority the next time - support the Commission ' s position .
Following a transitional period , a tariff of EUR 275 per tonne is to be introduced for bananas from third countries , from which bananas from ACP countries would be exempt .
This will protect the essential interests of the ACP producer countries .
However , the Achilles ' heel of the Commission ' s proposals is the lack of sufficient protection for the interests of banana producers within the European Union , essentially in the peripheral regions and the overseas departments .
They are up in arms about this omission - particularly our French colleagues , and I assume the same applies to Portugal and Spain .
Commissioner Fischler , things are not as the officials in your directorate-general perhaps claim - and I would also like to address this comment to Mr Lamy .
The arrangements for EU banana producers are not as good as they might be .
There is still a need for a political compromise here .
The structural measures envisaged in Title III of the Regulation on the common organisation of the market in bananas need to be considerably strengthened .
I call on the Commission to improve the structural measures and so open up the way for a compromise which is fundamentally in accordance with your proposals .
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , first I would like to present my compliments to the rapporteur , Mr Dary , because he has chosen the path of resistance and not renunciation on this complex issue .
Indeed , we find the Commission ' s new proposal unacceptable , because it makes unacceptable concessions to the multinationals of Latin America .
Is there anyone in this Parliament unaware of the role played by these multinationals in financing American campaigns ?
Because , ladies and gentlemen , adopting a ' tariff only ' system after a transitional period of six years , as the Commission proposes , would truly condemn our producers to failure and despair .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the banana regime of the European Union has already been condemned four times by the World Trade Organisation .
After the United States , Ecuador has also now obtained permission to take retaliatory action for an amount of USD 200 million .
Let us not forget that such punitive measures serve absolutely no purpose at all for our banana producers , but have extremely negative effects on European industry and employment .
Therefore , we cannot afford to be condemned like this again .
We must now come to an arrangement as quickly as possible that complies with the rulings of the WTO , with the promises made to the ACP countries and which is in the interests of our producers and consumers .
That is not easy , but the present system is untenable .
We must , therefore , urgently find and accept a compromise and a more liberal attitude .
In view of the fact that the Commission proposal , in my modest opinion , meets these requirements , I shall support it .
Although they do not produce a single kilo of bananas , the United States has complained to the WTO about the Community banana import regime .
Their one aim was to defend the interests of their great banana companies which are effectively ravaging Latin America and which already dominate over 70 % of the world market .
In 1999 , the WTO panel , orchestrated by the United States , condemned the Community ' s import licences system .
The Commission has submitted to that verdict by amending the market conditions to end up with a ' tariff only ' system in 2006 .
I am glad the Committee on Agriculture has rejected not only the amendments championed by the intermediaries of the American multinationals , but also the Commission ' s proposals .
I entirely approve of the Dary report which opposes the automatic move to a ' tariff only ' system and which defends the principles which presided over the establishment of the common organisation of markets , especially Community preference .
Our vote will also express our rejection of any compromise with the United States that would sacrifice the Community and ACP producers to the profit of the dollar banana .
Mr President , I would like to start by putting some questions to the Commission in the person of Commissioner Fischler .
Surely it is unacceptable to be applying two different sets of criteria .
Is the Commission not guilty of double standards here ?
Are bananas the poor relation of agricultural production in the European Union ?
Should the European agricultural model not be used to safeguard banana production in the European Union which will certainly be threatened by the liberalisation being proposed ?
Is there also a plan to liberalise trade in meat , milk and cereals ?
Will the Commission yield to the more radical approach adopted by the United States at a time when the Americans are significantly increasing their support for agriculture ?
Is no attention being paid at all to the fact that bananas are the main agricultural product in four outermost regions which are amongst the 10 most disadvantaged regions in the European Union ?
What is the relevance of Article 299 ( 2 ) of the Treaty , which provides for special treatment for the outermost regions , to the proposal to amend the Regulation on the COM in bananas ?
If banana production were to cease on the island of Madeira , it would represent an enormous environmental catastrophe as well as a serious loss of income for thousands of families .
Furthermore , as we saw in Seattle , the new round of WTO negotiations should be a genuine development round .
For this reason , we can justify giving priority to bananas produced in the European Union and in the ACP countries when we reform the common organisation of the market in bananas and this would be perfectly legitimate .
And it is only by maintaining import quotas that we can achieve this objective , which is perfectly compatible with World Trade Organisation rules .
We are not talking about fully developed regions in the centre of Europe which have countless alternatives when faced with changes in market conditions , and where the common agricultural policy invests most of its resources .
The Lisbon European Council instructed the Commission to present as quickly as possible practical measures aimed at implementing the Commission ' s report on the application of Article 299 ( 2 ) in relation to the outermost regions .
Agriculture is absolutely vital to many of these regions , which are hoping that the Commission will act swiftly and decisively to maintain regional conditions for agricultural development .
Mr President , I believe that these Commission proposals will mean that a number of African , Caribbean and Pacific countries will go out of business .
That will lead to poverty and even more deprivation .
Yes , we have to simplify the system .
It is far too complicated at the moment .
But I believe those countries need time to diversify properly and that is why I would agree with a ten-year transitional period .
Chiquita , Dole and Del Monte , who produce in Latin American countries , have not seen their production levels go down since 1993 .
Their access to the market has not gone down since 1993 .
All they want to do is get more access to the market at the expense of the ACP countries .
Yes , we have to find a solution .
Producers in the UK are being held to ransom by the USA .
We must not let ACP countries go to the wall just to save companies in the EU .
This is not just about bananas ; it is about trade with developing countries overall .
I am quite aware of the inconsistencies in the common organisation of the market in bananas and associated relations with the WTO .
It is difficult to take into account the various requirements and follow a policy which will favour the weakest parties and supply a high-quality product at affordable prices .
Postponing this until 2010 would not make much difference , although that would undoubtedly give us more time to find less damaging solutions .
Rather than adapting to the WTO system , we should endeavour to reform it without giving in to blackmail by US multinationals which make a profit out of exploiting poor countries .
We are all aware of the illiberal acts of these multinationals , which are destroying and corrupting both people and the environment .
The challenge should be to reform the WTO .
The Seattle Summit and the huge public demonstrations made the need plain .
This should be the European Union ' s policy .
Mr President , I speak from three perspectives .
I regret various aspects of this Dary report .
I have to say that this timescale of ten years is wholly unrealistic and unreasonable .
I regret the attempt to cling on to quotas and to interfere with trade in that way .
Of course , I also regret proposals for higher rates of tariff , which is another intervention in trade .
The amendment , which has been put down in my name and others , calls for a negotiated settlement of this dispute , which is World Trade Organisation compatible .
That is essential .
We have been down this road several times now and innocent companies and jobs are at risk and being threatened as a result of our failure to come to grips with this situation .
I support the Commissioner 's efforts .
He has a difficult task .
I have to say that I cannot think of anything more reasonable or pragmatic or sensible than the amendment which a number of colleagues have supported me in submitting .
I have in mind above all Amendments Nos 33 and 34 . Amendment No 33 calls for financial support for ecologically sound farming in third countries also .
Amendment No 34 calls for fair trade bananas to be supported regardless of their country of origin .
By the way , I think it is a shame that the Greens are not taking part in this debate and also highlighting these aspects .
In Ecuador , 60 % of banana producers are small producers with less than 20 hectares , and they are suffering from unjustifiable discrimination .
The world is not just black and white , as some people would have us believe , and the Latin American countries have been quite justified in their complaints to the WTO about our common market organisation .
I consider fixing the quotas for ten years to be a step in the wrong direction , and I believe that the Commission was already going the right way before this .
To my mind , they could have moved rather more forcefully towards liberalisation , but they were going in the right direction .
That is why I believe that the Commission will , in any case , have a mandate to negotiate , including a mandate from Parliament .
That is the official position .
Commissioner , your proposal does not accord with the objectives nor resolve the problems being suffered by the banana industry and politically it is not worthy of our producers . Mr Schwaiger recognised this a moment ago .
Nor does the Commission ' s proposal comply with our international commitments .
However , the most serious problem is that , immersed in difficult negotiations with the World Trade Organisation , we are showing publicly , in black and white , where our weak points lie .
Therefore , Commissioner , I ask you to listen to this Parliament - not simply to hear us - and to take note of the directions indicated in the Dary report and the opinions of the two competent committees .
Furthermore , I am sure that you will find a viable route in the direction indicated .
Therefore , Commissioner , act politically , find a solution and listen to this Parliament .
This is not the time to fail to take account of this House .
By way of introduction , I would like to stress that the Commission takes a positive view of the principles behind many of the amendments , such as the system of historical references for the allocation of quotas .
In fact , these reflect our discussions with the WTO complainants and the ACP producers .
However , the Commission believes that we should not amend our proposal at this delicate stage in the discussions , and I therefore have no alternative but to reject your amendments .
I would like to give my reasons for this rejection area by area .
The first area is the deletion of references to a tariff only system and an automatic move to such a system after a certain transitional period .
I will make no bones about it : the main objective of our proposal is to bring the COM in bananas into line with WTO rules .
The most important part of the proposal is the introduction of the tariff system after a certain transitional period .
On the other hand , this requires agreement with interested parties on the management of tariff quotas during the transitional period .
The Commission firmly believes that your wish to replace the tariff system with a permanent tariff quota system will only lead to renewed attacks in the WTO .
The second important area is the issue of managing tariff quotas .
The Commission is attempting to negotiate with the principal suppliers about allocating tariff quotas on the basis of historical references .
It would not be advisable to additionally define the individual options until these discussions have been concluded .
That really would be demanding the impossible .
The third area , which relates to quotas , is the extension of the period for maintaining the quota system to at least 10 years .
As we explained in the explanatory memorandum , the quickest way to do this is through the tariff system .
The Commission has proposed the transitional period because it gives time for producers within the Community and in the ACP countries to prepare for the new system .
Furthermore , if we moved automatically to a tariff only system , there would be no point in having an interim review or an appraisal at the end of the transitional period .
With regard to the tariff preference for ACP countries , the Commission believes that EUR 275 per tonne is sufficient to secure access to the Community market for these countries .
A higher preference would also lead to renewed attacks in the WTO .
If the higher preference limited Latin American countries ' access under quota C , this could be interpreted as if we wanted in practice to introduce a special ACP quota .
I shall now turn to the special support measures for our own producers in the European Union .
As I have already said , the principle aim of the Commission ' s proposal is to bring the COM into line with the WTO ' s final ruling .
The final ruling does not affect our intra-Community support system .
Furthermore , I would like to point out that this is a deficiency payment system , which means that it has a built-in guarantee . If prices fall , subsidies automatically increase .
My last point is about measures giving equal access to organic and fair trade bananas .
There are already horizontal measures in place guaranteeing equal access for organic bananas from third countries and organic bananas from the Community .
In addition , the European Union can grant subsidies for the production of organic bananas under the agri-environmental measures envisaged in the development plan for rural areas .
Measures to support sales of organic bananas can be financed under national and regional programmes .
Fair trade bananas would also come under the horizontal measures for fair trade , which , I hope , will soon be adopted on the basis of a Commission communication to this effect .
As you know , this communication is not just about fair trade bananas , but about fair trade in general .
The Commission is grateful for the wide-ranging discussions that have taken place here today .
Thank you very much , Commissioner .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
I shall suspend the sitting until the President arrives .
( The sitting was suspended at 11.25 a.m. and resumed at 11.30 a.m. )
Vote
Madam President , Mr Barn Crespo , Chairman of the Socialist Group , also directed a comment to me .
Last Monday we did indeed have a wide-ranging discussion in the Committee on Budgetary Control on the admissibility of this question , and on whether , as chair of the committee , I should make use of Rule 161 .
Almost every member of the committee spoke on this .
I myself have several times looked into the connection between the resolution , as it now appears in the compromise , and the explanatory statement , which reflects the rapporteur ' s position and is her responsibility .
I established the connection , and I said in the clearest terms that the language in the explanatory statement before us is very harsh .
Nevertheless , I do not think I should comment on the style and choice of words in a censorious way , because I would then have to do the same for every explanatory statement .
As I see it , there is a factual connection and I therefore decided not to reject this explanatory statement and informed the committee accordingly .
I was struck by the contradiction in tone between the explanatory statement and the content of the resolution . They are radically different .
That is why I tabled this amendment .
In other words , Mr Barn Crespo , you will take over Amendment No 5 , on behalf of your Group , pursuant to Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure .
Is that correct ?
Yes , Madam President , and furthermore , I would be grateful if , on such a sensitive issue , the rapporteur could speak on the basis of the question , as she is required to do .
Madam President , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , I shall support Mr Barn Crespo ' s proposal .
I did not think it was necessary to say this again explicitly , but if you wish I will gladly do that .
on Amendment No 5
After the vote on Amendment No 5
Madam President , although some people are pleased at the decision that has been taken , this creates a very dangerous precedent .
Whenever , in future , there is an explanatory statement which some in the House do not like we have established that every time we will be able to vote against if we wish to do so .
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
before the vote
I do not know whether it is possible to have it read out so that we have the chance to adopt a position on it .
Yes , I am afraid that will delay our work a little , Mrs Frahm .
I will try to be as clear as possible in taking the votes .
( Parliament adopted the two resolutions and three decisions in successive votes )
( Parliament adopted the two decisions and the resolution in successive votes )
before the vote
Madam President , there are two amendments tabled to Mr Kuhne 's report which propose to postpone discharge for Parliament .
These amendments make reference to the Secretary-General .
Mr van Hulten , as President , I take responsibility for declaring these amendments admissible .
I am not expressing an opinion on their content . Parliament has not yet voted on them .
The problem facing me is whether they are admissible or not .
I am telling you that I sincerely and honestly believe , after examining the position , that these amendments are admissible .
If they are voted through they will obviously be implemented , like everything else we vote for .
on Amendment No 4
Madam President , we have an amendment before us which allegedly sums up the substance of two observations by the Court of Auditors very concisely .
If you think it is necessary , I can read out the full wording of these observations , although personally I would prefer not to .
on Amendment No 1 from the Greens / ALE Group
Madam President , Point 6 , on which we have to vote in this amendment , stipulates a deadline of 15 May .
If we were to accept this , we would be contradicting a paragraph that we agreed earlier .
We have already agreed on this , and this was also unanimously agreed in committee , because we accepted that this was only possible if we took account of the situation on negotiations .
I therefore appeal to the Greens to withdraw this point , failing which I would recommend that you vote against it , so as to ensure consistency with the rest of the decision .
Madam President , we will not , of course , withdraw this point , because it is at the heart of our amendment .
This is about calling on the administration to present an action plan by 15 May describing exactly how improvements can be made .
We do not want a list of measures , that can come later .
There is nothing contradictory at all about this .
We are talking about a concrete action plan setting out how quite specific improvements in procurement , buildings and human resources policy can be achieved , and I call on the House to vote for this .
( Parliament adopted the decision )
( Parliament adopted the decision and the resolution in successive votes )
( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
on compromise Amendment No 224
Madam President , this is a compromise amendment which was negotiated among groups and then , of course , examined by the various groups last night .
Our Group supports this compromise amendment with , however , the exception of one word : " plus " - " plus proportionnelle " .
Presumably the English version is " more proportional " .
We cannot accept that word .
However , under the Rules , it is not possible to ask for a split vote on a compromise amendment .
I note that if Amendments Nos 100 and 101 were both to be adopted , it would come to exactly the same text as this compromise amendment , except for the problematic word " more " .
Thank you , Mr Corbett .
But I have to apply the rules .
A compromise amendment has been put before me .
Mr Brok , could you respond to Mr Corbett ' s remarks , and say whether you agree to change the compromise amendment ?
Madam President , we would like to keep the compromise amendment .
I put the question to Parliament .
Are there any objections to our putting this compromise amendment to the vote ?
I thought that was the case .
Madam President , I think it is fair that it be put to the vote .
However , my Group and many others will vote against it in order to support Amendments Nos 100 and 101 , which will achieve almost exactly the same effect with the slight improvements .
Yes , Mr Corbett , but I have to ask Parliament if there are any objections to my putting the compromise amendment to the vote .
Madam President , this amendment has been tabled under the Rules of Procedure and it should be voted on accordingly .
If it is rejected , we can then switch to the rules suggested by Mr Corbett .
That is the simplest approach .
Let us have a vote on the amendment , and if it is rejected , we can proceed as Mr Corbett has suggested .
Excuse me , Mr Brok , Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure is very clear .
It says that if there are any objections to putting a compromise amendment to the vote , the President of the European Parliament must leave it to the wisdom of the House .
I am only following the Rules , just as I should .
( Parliament decided not to put the compromise amendment to the vote )
on Amendment No 118 from the Greens / ALE Group
Madam President , there seems to be a lack of correspondence between the different linguistic versions of Amendment No 118 .
The French version simply refers to " les autorits comptentes " , whereas the English version refers to " the competent devolved authorities " which , in English , has a more significant meaning .
We established our voting lists in favour of this amendment on the basis of the French version .
Madam President , the French text takes precedence .
Right , thank you for making that clear .
on compromise Amendment No 227
Madam President , your services were informed yesterday that we would not sign this compromise amendment .
on Amendment No 174 from the PPE Group
Madam President , we wish to request a split vote , first on the term " four-fifths " and then on the rest .
Actually , a split vote on the original text is scheduled , that is , if the amendment is rejected .
Are you withdrawing this amendment , in which case we will hold a split vote on paragraph 29 ?
Is that right , Mr Brok ?
Madam President , if we were to do that here , we would not need to present the oral amendment on Paragraph 29 .
So it would be easier to do that here .
So what you want , if I have understood properly - and I also want to check with the rapporteurs - is for us to vote on paragraph 29 with an oral amendment .
Is that right ?
Madam President , I have the highest regard for Elmar Brok , but in this case he is mistaken .
The only point of the compromise amendment was to add the word " continuing " in English or " anhaltend " in German to " serious " , which is " schwerwiegend " in the German version .
That is the old text .
We have not agreed on the four-fifths majority , so it is just too late for this now .
We cannot split this again now .
If the amendments are withdrawn , I will take the vote on the original text .
Now , on the original text of paragraph 29 , I believe I had a request for an oral amendment from one of our rapporteurs .
So I will give him the floor to present his oral amendment and then we will have a split vote and roll-call vote on paragraph 29 .
Mr Dimitrakopoulos , if you would like to present your oral amendment , Parliament will decide .
Madam President , the oral amendment consists of adding the word ' continuing ' to the second part .
That is clear .
Are there any objections to putting this oral amendment to the vote ?
Madam President , this interesting idea simply takes up in oral form the compromise amendment that has just been rejected .
It is not really in order with our normal procedure .
Are there twelve Members against putting this oral amendment to the vote ?
( More than twelve Members rose to oppose the vote on the oral amendment )
I do not think that this is a reasonable way to do business or how we should treat each other !
Madam President , I must refute what Mr Brok said .
I proposed a solution in both cases .
In this case , we informed your services yesterday that we would not be signing that compromise amendment .
Thus , it should never have been tabled in our name .
It may have been a compromise between the ELDR and the EPP Groups , but it was not a compromise which we signed .
before the final vote
( Parliament adopted the resolution )
President .
I warmly congratulate our two rapporteurs , Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen .
( Loud applause )
- The Liberal Group today supported the amendment tabled by Jean Louis Bourlanges of the Group of the European People 's Party , which called for the resolution to be separate from the explanatory statement .
By way of explanation , consider the following quotes :
" One might conclude that the Commission had decided in some fields to draw a veil over and forget past events .
The Commission has sought to distract the public attention from unresolved internal problems in the present by making glib and bombastic promises for the future . "
" The Commission apparatus which wielded excessive power even under President Santer has now become even more powerful ; moreover it is all too often dominated by coteries " .
By any standards these comments are excessive , unfair and , in the context of the discharge procedure , wholly unsuitable .
On the final vote on the resolution we were faced with three choices today : to vote in favour , to vote against or to abstain .
We chose to abstain and this requires explanation .
To vote in favour of the Stauner report is to vote for postponement of granting discharge which , all things considered , we believe should be granted now .
As we explained in the Budgetary Control Committee , our preference was to vote " yes " to reform but " no " to visiting on this Commission the sins of its predecessors .
In the Liberal Group we have been consistently in favour of many of the elements in the Stauner report such as access to documents - it is a duty of the current Commission to provide access to documents .
But the political question remains - is this the moment and is this the issue for an apparent public stand off between Parliament and the Prodi Commission ?
We think not .
Voting against the report would merely have the effect of sending the report back to the Budgetary Control Committee without a clear expression of what happens next and by what means .
We are against such an approach .
So we have chosen to abstain .
This is a motivated abstention rather than an indifferent one .
Our Group preference was to have voted to grant discharge while promoting reform which we accept is also the view of the European Commission .
Unfortunately , today 's choice did not allow for such an option and so we have chosen to abstain .
The French Socialist delegation is glad a majority was achieved to pass Amendment No 5 highlighting the slippage between the resolution put to the vote and the explanatory statement .
By that vote , Members have reaffirmed that only the rapporteur is responsible for the explanatory statement .
The resolution put to the vote in Parliament today presents a catalogue of reasonable demands and recommendations to the Commission .
The postponement and the response time given to the Commission allow it to answer the questions from the Committee on Budgetary Control within the set time .
They leave the Committee on Budgetary Control sufficient time to prepare a report which will rule effectively on the implementation of the 1998 budget by the Commission .
We , too , are convinced that reform of the budgetary control and programme management procedures is essential , for these systems have proved to be inadequate .
In any case , it is not by attempting without fresh proof to reopen disciplinary proceedings which have now been concluded that we will achieve a thorough , effective reform of the Commission .
It should be recalled that 80 % of Community funds are managed at national level , and improving the financial management of the European Union budget could not therefore be contemplated without the cooperation of the Member States .
We cannot therefore support the perpetrators of these schemes , and , for this reason , we voted against the report .
Kuhne Report ( A5-0097 / 2000 )
The European Parliament must operate the same high standards with regard to its own management as are required of the Commission .
We are convinced that discharge can only be granted to the European Parliament in respect of the implementation of the 1998 budget , provided that specific measures are taken to buck this deplorable trend once and for all .
We are very much in favour of a specific action plan through which such mismanagement can be prevented in the future .
Dimitrakopoulos / Leinen Report ( A5-0086 / 2000 )
Mr President , I would like to underline that no one in Parliament will agree with every single item and every single paragraph of this important report .
That is clear .
We have put a large number of suggestions on the table .
Clearly , not all of them will be taken up in the form which this Parliament has advocated .
But we know that .
We think it is right that the IGC should look at these issues , look at them seriously and come up with appropriate solutions that will enable the Union to work .
My Group , as you know and as Barn Crespo has just said , has some reservations on particular points .
They relate , in particular , to the composition of this Parliament , where unfortunately attempts to reach a compromise position fell down at the last minute .
We must come back to this issue and put forward a proper proposal on a matter which is of direct concern to this House .
I am confident that we can do that .
We were very near to a compromise agreement .
We should be able to crack this one .
We are happy to vote for the report , given the circumstances , and with the reservations I have just described .
Mr President , I have voted against this report .
I say this with regret .
I have voted against this report for almost the same reasons that Mr Corbett has voted in favour .
I have the same objectives : an ambitious Intergovernmental Conference which deals with the real issues and looks to the long term .
I believe that this Parliament is sending a confused message to the Intergovernmental Conference through this resolution .
Reading it will not give a true idea of the message that Parliament wanted to send in relation to this Intergovernmental Conference .
For all these reasons , I regret , once again , to say that I have voted against .
We find three points in this report particularly harmful .
The necessary but unacknowledged counterpart of all these measures is the marginalisation of the national democracies .
The Europe of Nations Group proposes putting an end to these conflicts by breaking through the ceiling of 700 Members .
Why not a European Parliament of 1000 Members ?
It could work in variable geometry formations and its originality would have a powerful impact on the imagination .
Mr President , I shall endeavour to explain myself clearly .
I voted against this report and I was not alone in doing so . We did so with conviction on behalf of the European regionalists of the ALE .
We form part of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , but by taking this position we wanted to express our disillusionment over what is being discussed here today .
This agenda is , of course , too restricted .
We regret that all amendments that serve to incorporate this dimension into Europe have been rejected .
We therefore hope that the IGC will prove successful in getting vigorous reform under way .
We had to vote against because we do not fully identify ourselves with the structure of this democratic Europe .
Mr President , like many others in the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , I have voted against this report for many reasons , but above all for three reasons .
First of all , it is not , as many perhaps believe , federalism which is now a salient feature of Parliament ' s attitude but , rather , centralism .
It is the big States which are obtaining more power , those and the central institutions .
There is no trace of decentralisation and the redistribution of power and no sign of any substance being given to the subsidiarity principle .
Secondly , no adjustments are being made in anticipation of enlargement , which is perhaps the most serious feature of all .
If a Union of 28 Member States is to be successful , it must obviously have a flexible structure .
There must be clear definitions of powers in regard to what is to be decided centrally , what is to be decided in the Member States and what can be decided at regional level .
There is nothing of this , however .
If such a large Union is to be a real success , a large proportion of the decisions now made centrally must clearly be decentralised to a lower level .
Otherwise , the whole system will implode .
Thirdly , this is no democratic , constitutional process but a case of a power game behind locked doors .
I have therefore voted against .
Mr President , I express my disappointment at my Green colleagues and my own group , because I was left with no opportunity to vote on two key amendments on the common , foreign and security policy .
One was an amendment on the arms industries and arms exports and the other was on nuclear weapons .
It was very important for us to have an opportunity to say whether nuclear weapons play a role of any kind in the future of the common , foreign and security policy .
Unfortunately , my Green colleagues deemed these amendments unnecessary , which raises the question whether the Greens are changing their policy on nuclear weapons and on the arms industries .
I voted against the report itself , because I feel that more centralisation means less safety for smaller Member States , less democracy , less involvement of people at a local and national level .
This is not in the interest of the ordinary people of Europe .
A new constitution for Europe that overrides national constitutions , a legal personality for the European Union and , of course , more militarisation : this is not the kind of Europe I want .
I want a de-militarised Europe , a democratic Europe where the people have the real say , not bureaucrats .
Mr President , I voted for Amendment No 100 to the Dimitrakopoulos / Leinen report on the European Parliament ' s proposals for the Intergovernmental Conference , which , I regret , was not adopted by the House .
It laid down that elections to the European Parliament should be held as soon as possible using the same lists of candidates in all 15 Member States , that is to say genuinely European lists .
This is why I voted for this amendment .
Mr President , I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution although I did not agree with the individual points .
And I am sure that in the end there was not a single Member here who could understand what this was all about .
We should make sure we do not have procedures like this in plenary in future !
Mr President , although I am broadly in favour of the Dimitrakopoulos report on the Intergovernmental Conference , I abstained on the final vote .
And I am quite sure the IGC will not retain the current wording of paragraph 32 .
Mr President , I voted for the Dimitrakopoulos report , although I do have some reservations about it . The Dimitrakopoulos report does not go far enough for me in terms of EU federalisation and integration .
I believe that we should go much further , and move more determinedly , towards federalisation and away from nation states , towards the regions and the peoples of Europe .
I hope , even if the omens for this Intergovernmental Conference are not the best , that there may still be an opening here or there .
I am enough of a realist to know that this is a gradual process .
That is why I voted for this report and I hope that we will take many more such steps in the near future .
Mr President , I abstained in the final vote for several major reasons and also some minor ones .
It was difficult for me to support the resolution because it mixes the worst in with the best .
On the other hand , I did not want to vote against a resolution which probably represents the best the European Parliament can do at the moment .
The obvious conclusion seems to me that Parliament itself still has a long way to go to meet the profound aspirations of the majority of European Union citizens .
We have passed a resolution actually stating that the number of members of the Commission should be limited , as long as it is not .
Is that really a very sensible position for a Parliament to take ?
Ainardi , Bakopoulos , Eriksson , Figueiredo , Frahm , Koulourianos , Meijer , Herman Schmid , Seppnen and Sjstedt ( GUE / NGL ) , in writing .
We , Members from different parties in the GUE / NGL Group , have not voted in favour of the report concerning the European Parliament proposal for the IGC .
We oppose the development of the European Union towards a state with superior powers to those of the Member States in all aspects of policy , as the report in practice advocates .
Instead of transforming the EU into a state , we are of the opinion that the Union must be democratised .
We further protest against the report 's advocacy of the militarisation of the EU .
We insist that the EU remain a civil organisation and that the non-aligned countries ' special status be respected .
We are of the opinion that the Intergovernmental Conference must reconsider the construction of the EMU , reassessing the currency union 's lack of democracy and its right-wing policies .
We demand that the stability pact be reconsidered and Article 56 of the Treaty be rewritten in order to bring the ECB under democratic control .
We reiterate our condemnation of the failure to submit the EMU project to referendum in all of the Member States .
- ( DA ) The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament today voted against the report by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen on the European Parliament ' s proposal for the IGC .
The EU should build on a common political will to achieve the overriding objectives relating to peace , the environment and prosperity in Europe , focusing on the interests of its citizens .
Despite the fact that we do not consider that the European Parliament should propose all these amendments to the Treaty , we have elected to adopt positions on the individual points , as will be evident from our voting .
However , we would like to draw particular attention to the points which we think the IGC should concentrate on .
We are open to discussing increased use of qualified majority voting , although we do not consider that it should be the rule .
It is especially important that this matter be discussed on an on-going basis with Europe ' s citizens .
All Member States must demonstrate the political will to make cooperation work .
It is this will and the desire for common solutions which the EU must also build on in future .
We are not , therefore , worried that , following enlargement , the EU will be paralysed unless a thorough reform of the Treaty is carried out now .
In parallel with the IGC , the Member States are discussing a common European security and defence policy .
These discussions are far from complete , and we do not think that the European Parliament should table amendments to the Treaty before the outcome is known .
We continue to believe that the EU should not be an actual defence alliance .
In this area , the EU must focus in particular on conflict prevention and civil crisis management .
Also in parallel with the IGC , the creation of a Charter of Fundamental Rights is being debated .
We would like once again to stress that we want a charter in the form of a political document and that it should not be raised at the IGC with a view to incorporating it into the Treaty .
The commitment of the Portuguese members of the Socialist Group to the European project is a constant point of reference in its work and in its founding principles .
The building of Europe is today , more than ever , essential for peace and progress not only in Europe , but also throughout the world .
The European project is a gradual process , which has been able to adapt to changing realities and to respond to the vicissitudes of history .
Enlargement should not in any way be used as a pretext for making institutional changes which would gratuitously upset the equilibrium carefully created since 1957 , as these institutional changes have no direct logical or political link with enlargement .
Furthermore , we believe that the references in the report to the composition of the Commission are also not totally clear .
With regard to qualified majority voting in the Council , we believe that the system proposed is not in fact the most acceptable .
We consider that this new rule does not guarantee the necessary balance and equality in the representation of the Member States in the Council .
The issue of electing 10 % of the Members of the European Parliament via European lists is also insufficiently clear .
The European list is a good idea , especially if the only people included in it are individuals who represent a genuine point of reference in the spirit of Europe .
Nevertheless , it is our view that this concept should be considered in greater depth so that the fears that we have legitimately expressed here can be set aside .
We are also unable to accept the rule on qualified majority voting for decisions concerning appointments .
Until now all decisions in the European Union relating to appointments have been taken unanimously , and there has never been a lack of appointments or any kind of crisis .
We believe that the unanimity rule has the virtue of ensuring a greater balance and of avoiding possible conflicts between large and small countries within the European Union .
However , the spirit in which we have voted should not be confused with the motives of those who have a self-seeking and limited vision of national interest .
Unlike certain others , we want a politically strong European Union capable of sharing sovereignty and of making an ever greater contribution to social progress and to the well-being of its citizens .
For procedural reasons we have made this statement immediately , but some of the points remain dependent on a more detailed knowledge of the changes that have been made .
The Portuguese members of the Socialist Group therefore reserve the right , after studying the results of the vote , to change the way they have voted .
- ( ES ) The process of enlargement which the European Union has started has brought it to a crossroads and its ability to continue making progress will depend on the direction it takes .
Therefore , given that we are at a crucial moment in the process of European integration , it was appropriate for Parliament to send a message indicating what it understood to be the key points of the reform .
Let us hope that the IGC is aiming sufficiently high for the great challenges facing the Union and that it follows that path which Parliament has set for it .
- ( SV ) Enlargement of the European Union is one of the most important issues for the future of Europe .
The aim of the present Intergovernmental Conference is to prepare the EU for this enlargement . If enlargement is to be implemented successfully , certain institutional changes are required .
The report on the Intergovernmental Conference is the European Parliament ' s contribution to that conference .
It discusses both the necessary institutional reforms , about which no conclusions were reached in the Treaty of Amsterdam , and a number of additional questions which must also be dealt with prior to enlargement .
The role of the European Parliament is to represent the people in the Union .
Enlargement means more States ' representatives in Parliament .
If an efficient decision-making procedure is to be maintained , there must be a change in the way the seats are distributed .
We advocate a ceiling of 700 Members of the European Parliament .
The number of seats allocated to each country is determined through a system of degressive proportionality on the basis of the country ' s population .
Should a system with a single European constituency be introduced , the number of Members should not be increased .
A new weighting of votes in the Council is a prerequisite for successful enlargement of the EU .
It is important that the solution should be a permanent one and not need to be changed in connection with any future enlargement .
It ought to strike a balance between the principles of , on the one hand , ' one country , one vote ' and , on the other hand , ' one citizen , one vote ' .
An alternative would be for the weighting of votes in the Council to be calculated on the basis of the root of the population in the individual countries .
We believe that each Member State should have a Member in the Commission .
The Members of the Commission work for the whole Union and are important if a consensus between the Member States is to be achieved .
The Commission should therefore be able to draw upon knowledge and experience from all the countries in the Union .
In that way , the legitimacy of the Commission would also be strengthened .
The task of protecting the Union ' s interests against fraud is to be carried out by the individual Member States ' institutions and not by a supranational authority .
It is nonetheless important and desirable that there should be European prosecutors in each Member State and that they should cooperate .
Unanimity in the Council must be required in questions of a constitutional and fundamental nature , as well as in questions affecting general security and defence policy .
Closer cooperation between at least a third of the Member States cannot apply in the case of defence cooperation .
EU cooperation is , in the first place , a civilian European project and ought to be distinguished from military cooperation .
The Member States have different backgrounds where military alliances and neutrality are concerned .
We made great progress in Cologne and Helsinki by preparing ourselves for preventive crisis and conflict management .
It is therefore important that the Treaty should reflect the difference between civilian and military cooperation .
Military aid of a kind which places countries under obligations to each other has no place in the EU ' s Treaty .
We are not prepared to dispense with the veto in regard to military cooperation .
- The agenda of the IGC has now been set by the Member States .
We now know its general scope , and it is clear that much of the content of this resolution , regardless of its merit or lack of it , has nothing to do with it .
While Parliament is fully entitled to be aspirational , it is a mistake for us not to have focused our input into what the IGC is actually going to discuss and decide .
I fear that not doing this will damage Parliament 's reputation and standing , and will not be as helpful to the IGC as it could be .
The European Union is being used by imperialists and multinationals as a battering ram to break the people ' s resistance and make them give up their fight for a better tomorrow .
How else are we to interpret the abolition of a country ' s right of veto when its vital national interests are at stake ?
Why is the role of national parliaments being eroded by substantially limiting democratic scrutiny ?
Why is the weighting of votes in the Council being changed for the benefit of the large countries , at the expense of smaller countries ?
The people of Europe can once again expect no good to come out of this Intergovernmental Conference .
European Union policy detaches the most developed regions from any sense of solidarity , accelerating the break up of multinational federations .
It imposes forced privatisation .
Above all , it leads to the policy of a pyromaniac fireman in the Balkans , where all the political , social and environmental consequences still have to be reckoned up .
The stability plan for South-East Europe is a failure : the declarations of loyalty to NATO by the governments of Eastern Europe do not prevent the European Union treating them with contempt and imposing anti-social policies on them .
We must build a Europe capable of enlarging towards the East and the South , to all peoples who democratically express the wish to join .
A genuine public debate , involving all the peoples in drawing up a charter of rights and a common plan for society , would allow us to make progress towards that .
That is why we have voted against this report .
It is inadmissible to seek to cut the smallest national delegation , the Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg ' s , by a third , without giving any details about reductions to the large delegations .
There are other excesses in this veritable shopping list . I denounced them yesterday in my speech and Parliament has adopted them , in particular as regards the composition of the Commission and the decision-making procedures .
The Intergovernmental Conference is not intended to increase the powers of the Union ; the point of the operation is to improve the functioning of a Union enlarged from 15 to 26 or even 30 Member States .
Through these excesses a majority of this Parliament has done Europe a disservice .
, in writing .
We therefore welcome the fact that Parliament wishes to accept the challenge to reform the Union along these lines , but we wish to clarify our position as follows .
A Union of 25 to 30 Member States cannot operate in the same way as a Union of 15 Member States .
Instead , we need both an overview of the institutions ' working methods and a clearer distribution of labour between the Member States and the EU .
The EU can only function efficiently and democratically if it deals exclusively with cross-border issues and leaves other issues to be resolved mainly at national level .
On this basis , we think it is important for the present Intergovernmental Conference to establish the size of the Commission at one Commissioner per Member State .
This is important from a democratic perspective in view of the fact that , in this way , the voting clearly reflects the will of the people .
The Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party supports the Commission ' s proposal but would emphasise that small countries should not be placed at a disadvantage .
Parliament ought to have 700 seats , distributed among the population on the basis of a degressive proportional scale .
We are well disposed towards trying out a new system involving European lists , which means that elections for a limited number of the 700 seats could take place within the context of a single constituency .
We are aware of the fact that European parties at present have little support among our citizens , but we believe that a supplementary system involving European lists would , in time , lead to an increased European identity .
An EU of approximately 25-30 Member States will lead to more countries wanting to exploit the opportunity that exists for a number of them to go further than others in certain areas of policy ( so-called closer cooperation ) .
We do not think it is appropriate to see this as a permanent solution to the problem which will arise when the EU is enlarged .
The risk entailed in a Europe '  la carte ' is that the whole integrity and basic idea of EU cooperation will be lost .
The solidarity between cooperating States would be in danger of becoming fragmented , something which might have very undesirable consequences for the Union as such .
Flexibility of this kind ought to be seen , rather , as a temporary alternative for countries which are not yet ready , or sufficiently well prepared , to enter into deeper cooperation .
The wording in the Treaty of Amsterdam about closer cooperation is therefore an adequate and acceptable solution .
Too many parallel concentric circles create a system which is difficult to supervise .
The Union ' s common objectives should be promoted within the context of such cooperation , and no Member State should be excluded from participating .
We welcome the EU ' s increased opportunities to pursue a credible foreign and security policy so that the EU can assume increased responsibility when it comes to solving conflicts in the vicinity of the EU .
At the same time , we would emphasise that this development ought not to lead to our having two parallel and competing organisations for resolving conflicts .
- While not able to endorse every dot and comma of this report , I support its broad thrust .
If we are to make a success of enlargement a number of key reforms are essential .
A Union unable to make decisions would not serve the purpose of existing or applicant states .
Therefore ,
we must increase the use of qualified majority voting in the Council in order to avoid paralysis in decision taking ,
we must limit the number of Commissioners so that the Union 's executive remains efficient
and we must limit the number of MEPs to 700 to enable Parliament to function effectively .
We must continue to improve the Community 's capacity for external action and further democratise key areas of the Union 's activities .
- ( PT ) Once again , the European Parliament finds itself compelled to adopt a maximalist position on the institutions , a position bereft of any realism .
As usual , it is going all out for an unfettered federalist approach .
These are ideas from which we have always unequivocally distanced ourselves and will continue to do so .
However , this report also proposes new and unacceptable ideas .
All this suggests and implicitly encourages the creation of political inner cabinets , which are totally unacceptable , and which will make it easier to achieve ' enhanced cooperation ' .
We are , of course , opposed to such ideas .
The European Parliament could demonstrate its worth by adopting these policies .
But if it opts for the proposals contained in the Dimitrakopoulos-Leinen report , this will suggest that it is becoming increasingly remote from the people it is supposed to represent .
We will therefore be voting against the report .
- The complexity of the IGC process inevitably requires a complex response from the European Parliament .
The Dimitrakopoulos / Leinen report covers a wide range of issues which could be considered in the framework of the IGC which is taking place over the remainder of 2000 .
The debate which has begun between Member States is reflected in the points of view expressed within the European Parliament , as is the tension over the scope of the IGC .
The European Parliamentary Labour Party believes that it is imperative to conclude the IGC before the end of 2000 in order to leave the EU fully prepared for enlargement .
In order to achieve this , we believe that the scope of the IGC should be restricted to " tidying up " the outstanding points from Amsterdam , plus a small range of other issues .
EPLP Members voted in accordance with this approach , reflecting our concerns over the following areas :
There are doubts over the practicability of a European top-up list from 2009 of 10 % of MEPs to be elected on a single European constituency .
We have concerns over the workings of a European Public Prosecutor 's office whilst being concerned to protect the Union 's interests and resources against fraud throughout Community territory .
Likewise , the legislative measures in criminal matters in respect of fraud damaging the interests of the Union will need to be carefully constructed .
The EPLP believes that unanimity cannot solely be restricted to constitutional items , as issues including tax and social security must be dealt with at national level .
Constitutionalising the Treaties and division into two parts is not acceptable to the EPLP , and the same concerns about unanimity apply here .
The EPLP wishes to see a Charter of Fundamental Rights , but until the content of the Charter is determined , the question of giving it binding legal force should be left open .
The Commission has not previously called for the establishment of a single European air traffic control agency and the request in this report is superfluous .
1 ) There ought to be one Commissioner per Member State ( paragraph 10 ) .
This is about the Commission ' s legitimacy and future and about its being able to claim popular support .
This is required if it is to be possible to mirror the political breadth and diversity in each Member State .
3 ) There ought not to be any pan-European lists or single European constituency ( paragraph 4 ) .
So as not to make the distance between electors and elected representatives still greater , the Member States should remain as constituencies .
5 ) No EU financing of parties which operate at European level should be introduced , nor should any democratically dangerous and arbitrary suspension procedure ( paragraph 6 ) .
9 ) The financing of the EU should not be completely independent of contributions by the Member States ( paragraph 44.4 ) .
10 ) Respect for neutral States ' solutions in the field of defence policy and for their right to make their own decisions should be clearly upheld within the framework of the CFSP ( paragraph 34 ) .
The national parliaments and local authorities should play an important role by ensuring that the principle of subsidiarity is respected and by monitoring governments ' action in the Council .
- ( SV ) When the European Parliament today stated its position on the Intergovernmental Conference , I advocated solutions which also provide for the interests of the small Member States .
The trend within Parliament towards less understanding of smaller countries ' needs will increase the antagonism between Parliament and the Council of Ministers .
Through my Group , I have tabled an amendment aimed at guaranteeing that all of a particular country ' s nationalities and regions are represented in Parliament .
I also supported the proposal which emphasised the right of regional ministers to participate in meetings of the Council of Ministers on matters which fall within the scope of their autonomy .
However , I would express my satisfaction at the fact that so much attention has been devoted to the way in which the EC Court of Justice operates .
The Intergovernmental Conference must now give consideration to Parliament ' s constructive proposals .
I am extremely surprised at the proposals which would give Members of the European Parliament the right to participate in the appointment of the judges .
Finland supports the proposal that the Commission might be given a mandate to conduct trade negotiations in regard to services and immaterial rights following decisions in the Council with a qualified majority .
When the Council in this way reaches a decision about a negotiation mandate , Parliament ' s consent ought to be requested .
Otherwise , there will be a loss of democratic and parliamentary control over the trade negotiations .
Because the report is far-reaching in its scope and because there is considerable disagreement about it , Parliament ' s point of view will be of little significance .
That concludes the vote .
( The sitting was suspended at 2.02 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m. )
I would just like to ask whether Mr Berlusconi ' s name was included by mistake in the attendance register in the Minutes of yesterday ' s sitting .
I do not remember Mr Berlusconi being present .
Mr Frassoni , the department responsible will , of course , check up on this in the simplest way : we will ask Mr Berlusconi or his assistants directly whether he was present yesterday .
We therefore asked the President of the Parliament , Mrs Fontaine , to carry out an internal enquiry , which we hope will take place during the mini part-session at the beginning of May .
This is certainly a most regrettable incident , Mr Fiori , and I hope that the internal enquiry will shed some light on the matter .
Topical and Urgent Debate
The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance .
Iraq
Mr President , it is very important to point out that sanctions are themselves a form of warfare .
They are targeted at the most innocent civilians , at the innocent people in societies , especially children , the most vulnerable .
The sanctions on Iraq have become a weapon of mass destruction against the helpless people there .
Over 200 children die there every single day .
This is not acceptable .
We cannot allow this to go on .
Mary Robinson , the High Commissioner for Human Rights , has been speaking out against sanctions for a long time .
In February Mr Hans von Sponek , the United Nations humanitarian coordinator in Iraq , followed in the steps of Mr Halliday when he also resigned in protest at the on-going sanctions and the bombing of the Iraqi people .
Within hours of his resignation , the head of the World Food Programme in Iraq since January 1999 also resigned in protest at the sanctions .
These resignations must cause the world community to reconsider the justification for the continuing sanctions policy and also the bombings .
It is not just here in Europe that people are concerned , but right across the world .
If anyone looked at the very good documentary by the world-famous journalist , John Pilger , they would see what is happening there .
Can we allow this to go on without saying something about it ?
It is a blatant violation of international human rights laws .
It is the ordinary people who suffer .
We cannot allow this to go on .
It is not right and the US Congressmen who sent the letter to Bill Clinton are quite right : we have to de-link economic sanctions from the military sanctions that are currently in place .
We also have to address the bombings that are taking place without any UN mandate .
That is absolutely unacceptable .
A whole family was wiped out by these bombings , as shown in Mr Pilger 's documentary .
This is something we cannot ignore and we must push for an end to this inhumane policy .
Mr President , firstly let me say to my colleague and friend , Ms McKenna , that there is nothing in what she said that I do not agree with .
No Member of this House can remain unmoved by the harrowing situation in which so many Iraqi people find themselves .
The facts have been presented by respected international bodies such as UNICEF .
We have no reason whatsoever to doubt their veracity .
There are shortages of essential foodstuffs and agricultural infrastructure resulting in severe nutritional deficiencies .
Iraq , once one of the most economically advanced countries of the region , is being reduced to underdevelopment .
But let there be no illusion as to the role of the Iraqi regime in the suffering of its people .
The consistent refusal by the regime to fully implement United Nations resolutions has led to a situation where the sanctions remain firmly in place almost ten years after the invasion of Kuwait by Iraq .
Furthermore , the refusal of the regime for five years to accept the oil-for-food programme has certainly contributed to the humanitarian situation .
We , in Parliament , are well-intentioned towards the people of Iraq and are serious in our desire for a peaceful and lasting solution .
We must concentrate our efforts on convincing Iraq to implement the United Nations resolutions .
We must make it very clear in this forum that United Nations resolutions are legally binding on all members of the United Nations .
The European Parliament must not be seen to undermine the legitimacy of such resolutions in any way .
Any such action would be grist to the propaganda mill of the Iraqi regime .
It is within the power of the regime to have the sanctions imposed by the United Nations lifted .
To date , the regime most regrettably has preferred to allow its people to be threatened by disease and starvation than to respect international law .
Full implementation of Resolution 1284 obliges Iraq , among other things , to cooperate with the Red Cross in overseeing the repatriation of detainees .
I too have met some of these people .
I have shared their suffering with them .
Let us clearly understand that is a tragedy in itself .
We are caught between a rock and a hard place .
It is heartbreaking to see innocent children being sacrificed by their own leaders for purely personal , political motives .
Mr President , during these last few days , Parliament has been watching an extraordinarily powerful documentary on the effects of the sanctions on Iraq , and I would like to thank Patricia McKenna for this .
Civilians , men , women and children are dying because of the sanctions .
I will not repeat the figures , for we are all aware of them and they have been quoted many times in this Chamber .
But what a contradiction . What a tragedy .
In the name of the protection of human rights , the rich , powerful countries of the West are killing communities and starving them to death .
During the war in Yugoslavia , American aircraft continuously bombarded towns , killing civilians .
It is better to tell the truth and admit that the interests of the United States take precedence over those of communities .
Today , we are going to vote on a motion , a very important motion for a resolution calling for an end to the sanctions , an end to the embargo .
I feel that we must then act in order to give practical effect to our resolution .
And that is essential .
However , I also feel that a clear policy must be developed for the decommissioning of nuclear weapons where they exist in the Middle East .
For example , Israel is full of nuclear weapons and no one is asking Israel to decommission . Unfortunately , even the resolution called for by Egypt was not supported by the European Parliament in Cairo .
We must do everything possible to free this world from the nuclear threat .
Today , I would also like to pay tribute to Dennis Halliday - mentioned by Ms McKenna as well - who was responsible for the oil-for-food deal .
I hope that when the embargo imposed on Iraq is lifted , this will be the end of all embargoes everywhere throughout the world .
This is important for all of us .
People think the war , the missiles and the gassings are over , but the filthy effects of this war , which was never clean , go on .
There is still bombing in the North and in the South .
Cornfields are being burned in a country which invented agriculture ; date palms are being burned daily .
In the Strasbourg newspaper yesterday , there was an interview with a priest who risked his life just to go to the Babylon area , in Ur .
For people who go there , taking ambulances and medicines , like me and the National Front , Iraq is a vast concentration camp .
It is not just their bodies which are under attack by being deprived of food , milk , meat and fruit . Their minds are under attack as well .
There are no books . Even pencils are banned , on the pretext that their graphite could be used as coolant in the nuclear power stations .
There are schools but there is no paper .
There are doctors , but there is no medicine .
There are hospitals , but there is nothing inside them .
It is perverse .
They were promised food in exchange for oil .
But they are asked to practically give their oil away and then buy food .
Ladies and gentlemen - especially Members who are not here - by what right is this happening ?
Do not keep silent !
Do not be accomplices !
UN officials are resigning .
We should not have to go there in thirty years time , like the Belgians in Rwanda , and say sorry , or like the Holy Father , who is prostrating himself all over the place .
The honour of Europe depends on our speaking out for these young Arabs , for this great people being consigned to the night .
It is all very well being afraid of imaginary dangers in Vienna , but it is in Baghdad that the violation of human rights is taking place .
Let Washington ' s Nebuchadnezzar let these people go , these slaves in their own country .
They must be released from this poverty .
I appeal to your consciences !
Europe is denying itself !
Just as people kept silent about Spain in 1936 , just as people kept silent about the camps , they are keeping silent about Iraq .
There is no time to lose ; this people could cease to exist .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I ask you to act quickly .
He had the opportunity of meeting representatives of the Iraqi government , from whom he was able to obtain a commitment to respect the United Nations resolutions .
We have committed ourselves to ask for the immediate lifting of sanctions .
That is the purpose of this joint resolution and all the groups have agreed that , to show Parliament ' s unanimity on this distressing issue , there should definitely be no amendments .
Mr President , I can only endorse the speeches that have just been made , especially Mr Morillon ' s .
We certainly cannot continue to accept this situation .
Mr President , this resolution clearly calls for respect for the UN resolutions , especially Resolutions 687 , 688 and 1293 , and also Resolution 1284 on which we are seeking clarification .
I would mention , too , that only two members of the Security Council voted for it , against the advice of the three other members who abstained .
Mr President , this does not mean we are releasing the Iraqi regime from its responsibilities and obligations .
And here I differ slightly from Mr Collins .
The fact is the discrepancies between Iraq and the international community do not justify maintaining the embargo .
Remember , the Iraqi people are innocent .
But it is they and not their rulers , who were never democratically elected , who are now paying the price of these sanctions in human lives .
He decided to resign .
The disproportion between the constantly reiterated demands of certain members of the Security Council for the sanctions to be ruthlessly maintained and their consequences for the Iraqi people is - I am weighing my words - truly terrifying !
UNICEF estimates that half a million children have died as a result of nine years of sanctions , to the utter indifference of the civilised world .
It must be remembered that the rules of war involve respect for civilians .
The right of coercion over populations - it must also be remembered - should not lead to the right to starve them .
That is also one of the great principles of Western civilisation !
Mr President , our resolution is very consistent .
Mr President , that is the only way dictatorships can really be weakened and concord between all the peoples of the region promoted .
For once , Europe must speak with a European voice !
Mr President , Mr Morillon has already explained my Group ' s position , which is in favour of this joint resolution .
For my part , I would refer to the procedure which seems to me in this case to be important .
It is truly contradictory that this Parliament cannot obtain a Council declaration on an issue as sensitive as this .
Mr Salafranca , you and those who are of the same opinion as yourself could also make the Conference of Presidents aware of your views .
The Conference of Presidents is shortly to meet here in Strasbourg in order to establish the programme for the forthcoming part-sessions , and it could issue a request along the lines that you have suggested .
Mr President , I am as concerned as anybody in this House about the suffering of the people of Iraq as the result of sanctions but also of the actions of their own government .
We should all remember that sanctions are sometimes better than the alternatives that we may have to consider .
If we are to support this resolution then Iraq must most definitely honour its obligations under all the United Nations resolutions .
We , as a Parliament , must stand by our resolution of January this year , calling for the release of all Kuwaitis and other non-Iraqi nationals who are still imprisoned in Iraq .
I had the opportunity to visit Iraq last month .
We should remind Saddam Hussein that he must honour his obligations to the international community and we shall then honour our obligations to Iraq .
Mr President , the Commission shares the concern expressed during this debate .
It regrets Iraq ' s decision not to accept United Nations Security Council Resolution 1284 .
As Mr Collins and Mr Morillon in particular have pointed out , this decision delays the application of the new instrument of control and hence the relaxation of sanctions .
Since the Gulf War , the Community has been the principal source of humanitarian aid to Iraq , with at least EUR 240 million provided to reduce the considerable sufferings of the Iraqi people .
And we could have done even more if the Iraqi government had not imposed restrictions on the activities of non-governmental organisations , hindering the delivery of humanitarian aid in Iraq .
Given the situation we cannot pretend that humanitarian aid can do any more than alleviate some of the effects of this awful economic and human situation in the short term .
In this regard , we agree with the draft resolution .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m.
Chechnya
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions :
( B5-350 / 2000 ) by Mr Markov , Mr Vinci , Mr Papayannakis and Mrs Ainardi , on behalf of the GUE / NGL Group , on Chechnya ;
( B5-0363 / 2000 ) by Mrs Malmstrm , Mr Haarder , Mr Maaten and Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne , on behalf of the ELDR Group , on Chechnya ;
( B5-0366 / 2000 ) by Mr Oostlander and Mr Posselt , on behalf of the PPE  DE Group , on Chechnya ;
( B5-0375 / 2000 ) by Mr Sakellariou and Mrs Krehl , on behalf of the PSE Group , on Chechnya ;
( B5-0387 / 2000 ) by Mrs Schroedter , Mr Cohn-Bendit and Mr Gahrton , on behalf of the Verts / ALE Group , on the armed conflict in the Republic of Chechnya .
Mr President , Parliament has been dealing with the situation in and around Chechnya for some time .
We have followed with concern developments in the fundamentalist Islamic forces ' attempts to split Chechnya away from the Russian Federation .
We are categorically opposed to any form of terrorism and we support the fight against terrorism in every country in the world .
I believe that the territorial integrity and sovereignty of every country is an inviolable and fundamental principle .
However , for several months a war has been raging in Chechnya which none of these arguments can justify .
I spent over six years of my life in Russia and have very close ties with that country .
So I feel it all the more that Russia is totally overreacting in its use of military force in the Chechen conflict .
I find it totally unacceptable that we are witnessing violations of international humanitarian law by the Russian army .
It is a matter of deep regret and profound concern to me that militaristic thinking has now again taken hold in Russia .
It has long been recognised that military might never permanently resolves any conflict , and this needs to be remembered now .
It is high time that this war ended and that a political solution to this conflict was found , no matter how difficult and complicated that might be .
Furthermore , an enormous effort is required to restore this devastated region for the people who have lost all their possessions in the war and to make it habitable once again .
In the long term , this is the only way to remove this focus of conflict .
Mary Robinson obtained limited access .
She was not allowed to meet the Russian President and was treated in a most humiliating way .
In her report to the UN ' s session on human rights in Geneva , Mrs Robinson reported on individual testimonies concerning very serious crimes which had been committed in Chechnya .
The witnesses she had met had told of murders of civilians , summary trials , executions , rapes , torture and kidnappings .
Domestic affairs can never be pleaded as an excuse for atrocities of this kind .
We have a global responsibility to defend basic rights .
Abuses of these cannot - must not - be seen as internal matters .
The UN ' s High Commissioner must continue to be supported in his work .
The European Parliament has , on a number of occasions , expressed concern about the situation in Chechnya .
We support the Council of Europe ' s decision of last week to suspend Russia if no appropriate measures are taken .
For a liberal , considerations of trade and short-term benefits cannot come before the defence of human rights .
We would therefore react vigorously to these atrocities , but we also see it as very important to cooperate with democratic forces in Russia and with the new government .
We presume that Russia will be of assistance and allow the delegation to travel freely .
We also hope that the EU can eventually contribute to a reconstruction programme in the region .
Mr President , what has happened in the war in Chechnya has shocked us all .
A guerrilla war is being fought without the civilian population being spared , in fact , the civilian population is also suffering the dreadful atrocities that can occur in wartime .
At one stage , Chechen generals even invaded Dagestan , an action which merited absolutely no sympathy whatsoever .
This illustrates that there are various movements within Chechnya .
On the one hand , there are the military who tend to play the Afghan card or count on Iran for support . The other two groupings seek more of a political solution .
One of them is seeking a solution more in terms of what we in Western Europe would also wish to achieve and the other is again seeking to strengthen relations with Russia .
Mr President , the President of Chechnya has limited control over the troops in his country .
We are pleased to hear that Maskadov does not support the actions of his military .
We are also delighted to hear that the Russians are at long last admitting to the fact that Mr Putin is contacting the Chechen authorities indirectly .
We have also noted hat the Council of Europe has adopted a position in this regard .
We know from the Russian delegation that was here until yesterday that this has hit them exceptionally hard and we spoke about it with them in detail .
A mission of this kind must take place soon and I believe it is important that in the resolution tabled on the basis of the liberal text , an amendment is included to this effect .
We shall vote against Article 1 because once again it involves support for this statement and we could substitute a better statement of our own .
The delegation will have to examine what can be done to preserve the defence of human rights in the region , but also examine what we can do in the future to help Chechnya become a democratic constitutional state .
Who knows whether with help from the European Union and Russia , a Stability Pact for the Caucasus region can ever be achieved .
Mr President , for these reasons we support this resolution , which initially was not to our liking , but which , at the moment , provides the best basis for a statement from this House .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I do not want to repeat what the three previous speakers have said , with which I totally concur .
On the other hand , we are determined not simply to stand by and watch whilst Russia violates one international convention after another in this war in Chechnya .
We support the proposal from Mr Lukin , the Co-President of the Interparliamentary Delegation of the European Parliament and Russian Duma to send a fact-finding mission to Chechnya to gather information on the ground .
We must also say that we do not share this kind of silence on the part of the European Parliament which is spreading to all these issues like a low mist which obscures everything .
We have even noted that the Council of Europe itself is showing more courage than this Parliament .
What is a proportionate use of force in a case such as Chechnya ?
What proportion are we talking about ?
This is unacceptable .
What is meant by lessening the intensity of the conflict in Chechnya ?
Perhaps stopping the massacre of women and children ?
Perhaps stopping the bombing of hospitals ?
Please explain this to us .
Of course , we still believe that there is sufficient reason to suspend the partnership and cooperation agreement on the basis of the human rights clause .
There is no such thing as internal affairs in this world we want to build .
Either we have human rights or we do not have human rights .
Let there be no mistake , we should not let Mr Putin get away with that .
We must not allow the people of Chechnya to become victims of a genocide motivated principally by raw materials interests .
This joint delegation needs to set off without delay .
It would be a great step forward if this succeeded .
And , as I have already said , it is vital for us to make it crystal clear that we back human rights for the people of both Chechnya and of Russia .
We wish to help both peoples and both peoples have the right to advance towards freedom and towards taking their proper place in the international community .
I therefore support everything that has been said here about condemning the barbaric war being waged by Russia , which is a war that recalls the darkest days of the Soviet Union .
What we want to see is a new Russia , not a seamless transition from the Soviet Union , but a new Russia .
To my mind , it very much remains to be seen whether the new President Putin can guarantee this , certainly on the basis of what we have seen so far .
So there is no alternative to condemning this war and saying that although we certainly condemn terrorism we regard Russia ' s reaction as being totally disproportionate , inappropriate and unacceptable .
That is what we should condemn .
Unfortunately , Russia is only accepting this in words , not in deeds .
That is why I think it is important that this interparliamentary delegation exists .
This is the formula we need : condemnation of the war and a visit by the delegation , after which we must take whatever steps are necessary .
And if those steps have to be harsh ones , then we should , in full awareness of the facts , not shrink back from taking them .
Mr President , once again we are discussing the situation in Chechnya .
During these discussions , we have reiterated our main demands : cease-fire and political dialogue , access for , and presence of , international and humanitarian organisations , and independent inquiries into any human rights violations .
All these demands are also in the European Parliament ' s resolution and the recommendation from the Council of Europe ' s Parliamentary Assembly .
As the European Parliament has emphasised , the Russian authorities have failed to respond satisfactorily to these requests .
All that can be said is that Mr Ivanov finally accepted the European Union and ECHO embassies at the last Cooperation Council .
Recent discussions in the Council of Europe , the Committee on Human Rights in Geneva and this Parliament reflect growing concern amongst the European public .
Last Monday ' s General Affairs Council stressed the importance of maintaining an open and frank dialogue , including on this subject , with the Russian authorities .
We think Russia should pursue implementation of the partnership agreement in terms of its elements - I do mean all its elements - and provide more concrete results than we have at this stage .
The debate is closed .
The vote will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m.
Human rights
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions :
Jewish prisoners in Iran
( B5-0340 / 2000 ) by Mr Belder and Mr Van Dam , on behalf of the EDD Group , on the Jews persecuted in Iran ;
( B5  0351 / 2000 ) by Mr Sylla , Mr Brie and Mrs Morgantini , on behalf of the GUE / NGL Group , on the prisoners charged with spying in Iran ;
( B5  0362 / 2000 ) by Mr De Clercq , on behalf of the ELDR Group , on 13 Iranian Jews and 8 Iranian Muslims persecuted in Iran ;
( B5  0378 / 2000 ) by Mr Titley , Mr Zimmeray and Mrs Karamanou , on behalf of the PSE Group , on the prisoners in Iran charged with spying for Israel and the United States ;
( B5  0383 / 2000 ) by Mr Jonckheer , Mrs Srensen and Mr Cohn-Bendit , on behalf of the Verts / ALE Group , on prisoners in Iran charged with spying for Israel and the United States .
Akin Birdal
( B5  0358 / 2000 ) by Mrs Malmstrm , Mrs Thors , Baroness Ludford and Mr Duff , on behalf of the ELDR Group , on the arrest of Akin Birdal in Turkey ;
( B5  0368 / 2000 ) by Mr Salafranca , Mr Snchez-Neyra and Mr Morillon , on behalf of the PPE  DE Group , on respect for fundamental democratic rights in Turkey ;
( B5  0379 / 2000 ) by Mr Sakellariou and Mr Schori , on behalf of the PSE Group , on the imprisonment of Akin Birdal ;
Tibet
( B5  0353 / 2000 ) by Mr Sjstedt , Mrs Eriksson and Mrs Morgantini , on behalf of the GUE / NGL Group , on Tibet ;
( B5  0361 / 2000 ) by Mrs Malmstrm , on behalf of the ELDR Group , on Tibet ;
( B5  0369 / 2000 ) by Mr Thomas Mann , on behalf of the PPE  DE Group , on Tibet ;
( B5  0373 / 2000 ) by Mrs Muscardini , on behalf of the UEN Group , on Tibet ;
( B5  0377 / 2000 ) by Mr Sakellariou , on behalf of the PSE Group , on Tibet .
( B5  0370 / 2000 ) by Lord Bethell , on behalf of the PPE  DE Group , on the abolition of the death penalty in the United States ;
Zimbabwe
( B5  0381 / 2000 ) by Mr Corrie and Mr Elles , on behalf of the PPE  DE Group , on the situation in Zimbabwe ;
( B5  0382 / 2000 ) by Mr Mulder , on behalf of the ELDR Group , on Zimbabwe ;
( B5  0386 / 2000 ) by Mrs Maes , Mrs Lucas , Mr Rod , Mr Lannoye and Mr Schrling , on behalf of the Verts / ALE Group , on Zimbabwe ;
( B5  0389 / 2000 ) by Mr Van den Berg , on behalf of the PSE Group , on Zimbabwe .
Jewish prisoners in Iran
Mr President , what is the purpose of this joint resolution ?
Surely it is to establish a proper and public judicial process against the thirteen members of the Jewish community in the Southern Iranian town of Shiraz ?
The European Parliament in no way disputes the right of the Islamic Republic of Iran to react against foreign attempts at espionage and where the burden of proof is decisive , to punish them accordingly .
What fundamental objections are we actually raising against the judicial action taken by the Iranian authorities ?
The latest accusation was scarcely credible to the orthodox Jewish community in Shiraz .
Finally , the official accusers raised the almost stereotypical subject of spying for ' America and the Zionists ' , which means the state of Israel .
And so these thirteen Jews are being threatened with the death penalty .
And remember , this has been the case for over a year as they were arrested in March 1999 .
The whole affair in the meantime smacks of the unremitting power struggle between the reformist camp around President Khatami and the conservatives around revolutionary leader Khomenei - by trampling on a defenceless Jewish minority of about 30 000 people .
What position should the European Parliament take in this tough , domestic political struggle with regard to the specific case of the thirteen Jews from Shiraz ?
This fundamental choice involves , at the same time , not giving the hard-liners in the Islamic Republic any excuse to undermine this promising path of reform .
And , in their view , the abolition of the sharia is equivalent to the abolition of the present Iranian form of government .
In short , this addition does nothing to support the case of the thirteen Jews from Shiraz .
What we have in mind is a clear legal settlement of this tragedy , ending we hope with the release of all prisoners .
That would really add a happy chapter to the almost 2500 years of history of the Jewish community in the land of the Persians .
God willing , that is what we shall see !
Mr President , the trial of thirteen Iranian Jews accused of espionage has opened today in Teheran .
The trial is taking place behind closed doors .
These people have been in prison for months under conditions we know virtually nothing about .
Their lawyers , some of whom are state appointed , were only allowed to look at the files the day before yesterday .
There is no guarantee of the right to a defence .
I am afraid this may only be a mock trial . Yet the charge is so serious it could lead to the death penalty .
When the case started , we had the privilege of hearing some leading government dignitaries publicly call for the prisoners to be put to death straight away .
This case , which was built up from nothing - I think we are all convinced of that - has mobilised international public opinion powerfully .
Finally , the court announced this morning that the trial was being adjourned until 1 May , which is a step forward , at least .
But some of the accused are still facing the death penalty and the others face heavy sentences .
The government ' s various changes of attitude illustrate their embarrassment very well .
They were incapable of stating the charges clearly until the very last minute .
It is also clear that the outcome of this trial partly depends on how the Iranian political situation evolves .
In the last parliamentary elections , in February , the reformist tendency defeated the conservatives who include the most extremist elements .
There is consequently a risk that this case of the thirteen Iranian Jews will be used by one faction against another , in step with domestic conflicts .
Justice has little place in that kind of battle , and human rights even less .
So it is imperative that we react .
The European Union is based on the values laid down in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights . As a member of the UN , Iran should be applying them too .
That is why we must demand the release of the prisoners : the thirteen Iranian Jews , but also the other eight Moslem prisoners and the students we know absolutely nothing about .
We must also call on the Union governments to do the same .
We also demand that observers be permitted to attend the trial , because public hearings are fundamental to holding a fair trial .
Finally , we must make it absolutely clear that the development of our relations with Iran will be subject to respect for human rights in that country .
Mr President , Commissioner Lamy , ladies and gentlemen , since 1979 , fifteen Jews have been executed in Iran . The charge was espionage , but their real crime was being Jewish .
Today , a new trial is starting in Shiraz , in the South .
Thirteen Jews and eight Moslems have also been detained for a year in Iranian jails , facing death by hanging .
The youngest is only sixteen years old .
Back in September , Parliament resolutely called for respect for the fundamental rights of these prisoners in terms of a fair , just and public trial , with their own lawyers and with international observers present .
When the more moderate elements won the last elections , we thought our call had been heard .
But now there is this parody of a trial , a summary procedure behind closed doors before a revolutionary court presided over by a single judge , and a cleric at that .
As for observers , so far Teheran has not granted any visas . In other words , we are disappointed , disappointed and alarmed .
We are continuing to insist that the international community be able to follow the proceedings from start to finish .
Furthermore , at the request of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , the European Parliament is urgently calling on the Council to send an official delegation to visit the prisoners .
There is no such thing as an internal matter where human rights are involved .
Our feelings are as strong as our concern .
We must make ourselves perfectly clear . Iran ' s possible return to the bosom of the international community has a price today .
We hope the Council and the Commission will rally unequivocally to our position .
We must remain intransigent on this point - human rights are not negotiable .
You have just heard confirmation , from Mr Sylla , that this planned mock trial is at least going to be adjourned for a few days .
That means there is the utmost justification for dealing with Parliament ' s second joint resolution on this issue under urgent procedure .
You will remember , Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , and it has been mentioned , that some Iranian Jews were arrested for spying for Israel a few years ago .
They were put on trial for it and hanged .
Who are the accused ?
We should point out that they include a cobbler , a cemetery caretaker , a boy who is not even sixteen yet , and two old men .
It is hard to understand how these people are endangering Iranian democracy .
What are they supposed to have done ?
No one really knows !
We do not have the right to know what they are supposed to have done .
A letter to a family in Israel may have been enough to set this case in motion .
In a previous resolution and in repeated letters supported by the President , we asked to be allowed to visit the prisoners .
That was refused .
We then asked to meet the families who are not sworn to secrecy , as far as I know .
That was also refused .
We asked - in a unanimous resolution - to be able to attend the trial .
Up to now that has been refused .
I hope we are not going to wake up , some day soon , and find that these thirteen people have been executed because they were Jewish .
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance wholeheartedly supports the joint resolution that will be put to the vote today .
I agree with all the previous speakers .
But I also support the massive protests that have been taking place for some time throughout the world in connection with this affair , such as today at 6 p.m. in Brussels in front of the Iranian embassy .
Today is a special day , 13 April 2000 , the date of the so-called ' trial ' .
In 1979 , 1993 , 1998 and 1999 , resolutions were sent from the European Parliament to Iran , but what happened to them ?
Via Amnesty International , Jewish families and organisations , we learned that , on 8 March 1999 , thirteen Iranian Jews and Muslims were arrested and detained . The youngest is sixteen years old and the oldest forty eight .
The reason : espionage . Yet again .
Requests have been made to send letters , but to no avail .
The Israeli Minister for Foreign Affairs , David Levy , sent a letter to various ministers , including the Belgian Minister , to point out that these people are in no way guilty of spying .
They are Hebrew teachers and perform religious rituals , among other things .
Three of the thirteen have been allowed to choose a lawyer and the others have had lawyers forced upon them .
I heard today at 11.30 a.m. that the forum of Jewish organisations in Belgium says that there will not be a trial .
The Jewish communities are afraid .
What is likely to happen ?
People disappear , they are locked up , but for how long ? Either that or they are used for cattle trading .
It is very worrying and must be followed up .
I hope that Iran will act wisely and responsibly and not with hatred .
That seems to me an unacceptable position for any country that claims to respect human rights .
These 13 who were arrested were arrested in secret ; nobody knew of their whereabouts for two or three months .
In addition , these 13 were all religious leaders or leaders of the Jewish community .
Therefore , we can only interpret this trial as a deliberate attack on the Jewish community in Iran .
We know that there will not be a free trial ; it will not be open to the public and we have no idea whether these people will have representation .
Let us send our message very clearly from this Chamber .
If Iran claims to respect human rights , trials like this should never be allowed to happen .
- ( EL ) Mr President , we were most satisfied to see President Khatami ' s forces of modernisation strengthened during the recent elections in Iran .
Greece has started using its good relations with Iran to wage a campaign and to take steps to rescue the 13 .
We are using diplomatic channels to try and ensure that the death penalty is not imposed or , more to the point , is not carried out .
Akin Birdal
Mr President , Turkey is now standing at a crossroads .
It can choose the past , it can choose oppression and barbarity , or it can choose the future , freedom and humanitarianism .
Akin Birdal has now been imprisoned for such a statement , in spite of his ill-health .
We must say to the Turkish Government that the policy which the country is conducting belongs to the past .
This type of behaviour does not belong to the future , where we hope that human rights will be foremost .
Such a country will never achieve the unity which it desires .
My advice to Turkey must be : choose the future and free Akin Birdal and his colleagues .
Mr President , in Helsinki , the EU countries confirmed Turkey ' s status as a candidate state .
The Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party supported this proposal .
We hope that we shall one day be able to welcome Turkey into the Community . We believe that this message gives an important signal to the Turkish people .
But - and it is an important but - before negotiations can begin , a good many changes are required in Turkey , especially with regard to human rights .
Many of us had hoped for improvements in this area .
It is therefore all the more distressing to study all the reports about atrocities which arrive on an almost daily basis .
Turkey has signed international agreements on human rights but , as has become bitterly apparent to journalists , writers , human rights activists and opposition politicians , these are not observed .
We in the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party wish especially to express our concern about the chairman of Turkey ' s Human Rights Foundation , Akin Birdal .
He had scarcely received a just trial and had been sentenced on flimsy grounds .
Following a period of freedom , he has again been imprisoned and is being denied the proper medical care he needs following the severe injuries he suffered in the attempt on his life in 1998 .
He must be released immediately .
In the EU , we are proud not merely to be an economic club .
The EU is a Union founded upon values , respect for human rights , democracy and the principles of the constitutional state .
Everyone , both existing and future members , must respect these criteria .
Unfortunately , Turkey still has a long way to go .
I can only repeat here as firmly as possible what I said in Ankara on my last visit there .
The European Parliament has no intention whatsoever of allowing the micro-nationalist miasma which has just drenched the Balkans in blood to develop in Turkey .
Turkish public opinion need have no fear of our being tempted to encourage any separatist claims whatsoever .
At any rate , that is my interpretation of minority rights .
